### 16.11 THREE PHASE A.C. SUPPLY

We have already studied that an A.C. generator consists of a coil with a pair of slip rings. As the coil rotates an alternating voltage is generated across the slip rings. In a three phase A.C. generator, instead of one coil, there are three coils inclined at $120^{\circ}$ to each other, each connected to its own pair of slip rings. When this combination of three coils rotate in the magnetic field, each coil generates an alternating voltage across its own pair of slip rings. Thus, three alternating voltages are generated. The phase difference between these voltages is $120^{\circ}$. It means that when voltage across the first

pair of slip rings is zero, having a phase of 0 , the voltage across the second pair of slip rings would not be zero but it will have a phase of $120^{\circ}$. Similarly at this instant the voltage generated across the third pair will have a phase $240^{\circ}$. This is shown in Fig. 16.17. The machine, instead of having six terminals, two for each pair of slip rings, has only four terminals because the starting point of all the three coils has a common junction which is often earthed to the shaft of the generator and the other three ends of the coils are connected to three separate terminals on the machine. These four terminals along with the lines and coils connected to them are shown in Fig.16.18. The voltage across each of lines connected to terminals $A, B, C$ and the neutral line is 230 V . Because of $120^{\circ}$ phase shift, the voltage across any two lines is about 400 V . The main advantage of having a three phase supply is that the total load of the house or a factory is divided in three parts, so that none of the line is over loaded. If heavy load consisting of a number of air conditioners and motors etc., is supplied power from a single phase supply, its voltage is likely to drop at full load. Moreover, the three phase supply also provides 400 V which can be used to operate some special appliances requiring 400 V for their operation.

# 16.12 PRINCIPLE OF METAL DETECTORS

A coil and a capacitor are electrical components which together can produce oscillations of current. An $L-C$ circuit behaves just like an oscillating mass - spring system. In this case energy oscillates between a capacitor and an inductor. The circuit is called an electrical oscillator. Two such oscillators $A$ and $B$ are used in the operation of a common type of metal detector (Fig.16.19). In the absence of any nearby
Fig. 16.18

Fig 16.20
metal object, the inductances $L_{A}$ and $L_{B}$ are the same and hence the resonance frequency of the two circuits is also same. When the inductor $B$, called the search coil comes near a metal object, its inductance $L_{B}$ decreases and corresponding oscillator frequency increases and thus a beat note is heard in the attached speaker. Such detectors are extensively used not only for various security checks but also to locate buried metal objects.