### 7.4.2 Complementary Combinations

Theorem. Prove that: ${ }^{n} C_{r}={ }^{n} C_{n-r}$
Proof: If from $n$ different objects, we select $r$ objects then $(n-r)$ objects are left. Corresponding to every combination of $r$ objects, there is a combination of $(n-r)$

objects and vice versa. Thus, the number of combinations of $n$ objects taken $r$ at a time is equal to the number of combinations of $n$ objects taken $(n-r)$ at a time.

$$
\begin{aligned}
\therefore \quad{ }^{n} C_{r} & ={ }^{n} C_{n-r} \\
{ }^{n} C_{n-r} & =\frac{n!}{(n-r)!(n-n+r)!} \\
& =\frac{n!}{r!(n-r)!} \\
{ }^{n} C_{n-r} & ={ }^{n} C_{r}
\end{aligned}
$$

Note
This result will be found useful in evaluating
${ }^{n} C_{r}$ when $r>\frac{n}{2}$.
For example,
${ }^{12} C_{10}={ }^{12} C_{12-10}={ }^{12} C_{2}=\frac{(12) \cdot(11)}{2}=6 \cdot 11=66$

Note
${ }^{n} C_{r}$ and ${ }^{n} C_{n-r}$ are known as complementary combinations.
Example 11 Find the number of the diagonals of a 6 -sided figure.
Solution A 6 -sided figure has 6 vertices. By joining any two vertices, we get a line segment.
$\therefore \quad$ Number of line segments $={ }^{6} C_{2}=\frac{6!}{2!4!}=15$
But these line segments include 6 sides of the figure
$\therefore \quad$ number of diagonals $=15-6=9$
Difference between permutation and combination

| Permutation | Combination |
| :--: | :--: |
| - Order is important. <br> e.g., $a b$ and $b a$ are different (because order of any object is matter) | - Order is not important <br> e.g., $a b$ and $b a$ are same (because order does not matter) |
| - Arrangement of objects <br> e.g. arrangement of: | - Selection of objects <br> e.g. selection of: <br> - different colours <br> - members in a team <br> - food items |
| - ball of different colours <br> - English alphabet (letters) <br> - people while sitting on chairs |  |

# Application of Permutations and Combinations in Cryptography

Example 12 Zain wants to generate a password for his laptop to secure the data. He can take only 6 characters to generate a password. Each character can either be an upper case letter $(A-Z)$ or digits from $(0-9)$.
Can you tell how many passwords can be generated by using the above letters and digits:
(i) if repetition of characters is not allowed
(ii) if repetition of characters is allowed

Solution
Total number of letters $=26$
Total number of digits $=10$
Total number of letters and digits $=26+10=36$
$n=$ total number of characters $=36$
$r=$ required number of characters $=6$
(i) If repetition of characters is not allowed, we find out total possible permutations as.

$$
\begin{aligned}
{ }^{n} P_{r}={ }^{36} P_{0} & =\frac{36!}{(36-6)!}=\frac{36!}{30!} \\
& =\frac{36 \cdot 35 \cdot 34 \cdot 33 \cdot 32 \cdot 31 \cdot 30!}{30!} \\
& =36 \cdot 35 \cdot 34 \cdot 33 \cdot 32 \cdot 31 \\
& =1,402,410,240 \text { ways }
\end{aligned}
$$

Hence, $1,402,410,240$ passwords can be generated by using the 26 alphabet and 10 digits. (If repetition of the characters is not allowed)
(ii) If the repetition of the characters is allowed Using fundamental principle of counting:
The total number of possible combinations $=36 \times 36 \times 36 \times 36 \times 36 \times 36=36^{6}$ Hence, $36^{6}$ passwords can be generated by using the 26 alphabets and 10 digits, If repetition of characters is allowed.
Application of permutations to estimate the odd of winning the lottery.
Example 13 A box contains 15 cards from ( $1-15$ ). Danish is to select 5 cards. If all the selected cards are the first five multiples of 2 then Danish will win the game. Find Danish's chance of winning the game, when
(i) order is important
(ii) order is not important

Solution $n=$ total number of cards $=15$
$r=$ required number of cards $=5$
(i) When order is important,

$$
\begin{aligned}
\text { Total possible ways } & ={ }^{n} P_{r}={ }^{15} P_{0}=\frac{15!}{(15-5)!} \\
& =\frac{15!}{10!}=360,360 \text { ways }
\end{aligned}
$$

Hence, Danish's chance to win the game $=\frac{1}{360,360}=0.000002775$

(ii) When order is not important

$$
\begin{aligned}
& n=\text { Total number of cards }=15 \\
& r=\text { Required number of cards }=5
\end{aligned}
$$

Total possible ways $={ }^{a} C_{r}={ }^{15} C_{5}=\frac{15!}{5!(15-5)!}$

$$
\begin{aligned}
& =\frac{15!}{5!10!}=\frac{15 \times 14 \times 13 \times 12 \times 11 \times 10!}{51.10!} \\
& =\frac{15 \times 14 \times 13 \times 12 \times 11}{5 \times 4 \times 3 \times 2 \times 1}=3003 \text { ways }
\end{aligned}
$$

Hence, Danish's chance to win the game $=\frac{1}{3003}=0.00033$
Application of Permutation and Combination to choose different sets of songs for Certain Occasions
Example 14 On Independence Day, a DJ has a list of ten different national songs. He wants to select any five national songs for the day. Find how many ways he can select and play the songs:
(i) if the order of playing the songs matters
(ii) if the order of playing the songs does not matter

Solution (i) When order matters

$$
\begin{aligned}
& n=\text { total number of national songs }=10 \\
& r=\text { required number of national songs }=5
\end{aligned}
$$

Total number of ways $={ }^{a} P_{1}={ }^{10} P_{5}$

$$
=\frac{10!}{(10-5)!}=\frac{10!}{5!}=30,240 \text { ways }
$$

Hence, the DJ can play the five national songs in 30,240 different ways.
(ii) When order is not matter
$n=$ total number of national songs $=10$
$r=$ total number of selected national songs $=5$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\text { Total number of ways } & ={ }^{a} C_{r}={ }^{10} C_{5}=\frac{10!}{5!(10-5)!} \\
& =\frac{10!}{51.5!}=252 \text { ways }
\end{aligned}
$$

Hence, the DJ can play the five national songs in 252 different ways.

# EXERCISE 7.4

1. Evaluate the following:
(i) ${ }^{20} C_{50}$
(ii) ${ }^{1000} C_{0}$
(iii) ${ }^{10} C_{7}$
(iv) ${ }^{20} C_{17}$
2. (i) If ${ }^{34} C_{2}:{ }^{4} C_{2}=15: 1$, find $n$. (ii) If ${ }^{8} P_{r}=120$ and ${ }^{n} C_{r}=20$, find $r$.
3. Find the values of $n$ and $r$, when
(i) ${ }^{n} C_{r}=56,{ }^{n} P_{r}=336$
(ii) ${ }^{n-1} C_{r-1}:{ }^{n} C_{r}:{ }^{n} C_{r}=1: 3: 7$
4. Prove that (i) ${ }^{4} C_{r}+{ }^{4} C_{r-1}={ }^{n+1} C_{r}$
(ii) $r \cdot{ }^{4} C_{r}=(n-r+1){ }^{4} C_{r-1}$
5. Prove that product or $r$ consecutive intergers is divisible by $r^{1}$.
6. In how many ways can five subjects be selected out of eight subjects to select a course programme?
7. Find the number of possible arrangements of vowel letters from the English alphabet?
8. In how many ways 3 dishes of Desi foods and 2 dishes of Chinese foods be selected from 6 dishes of desi foods and 8 dishes of Chinese foods?
9. From a standard deck of 52 playing cards, there are 26 black cards and 26 red cards. How many different ways can eight cards be selected if 3 are black and the remaining 5 are red?
10. A bag contains 8 red balls and 7 green balls. Find the total number of possible ways in which five balls are selected in a way:
(i) 3 red and 2 green
(ii) 1 red and 4 green
(iii) 4 red and 1 green
(iv) all the red balls
11. How many diagonals and triangles can be formed by joining the vertices of the polygon having 15 sides.
12. Find the number of sides of a polygon if the number of its diagonals is 104.
13. How many triangles can be formed by joining 15 points, 6 of which lie on the same straight line?
14. The members of a club are 10 boys and 8 girls. In how many ways can a committee of 6 boys and 3 girls be formed?
15. How many committees of 7 members can be chosen from a group of 10 persons when each committee must include 2 particular persons?
16. In how many ways can a cricket team of 11 players be selected out of 17 players? How many of them will include a particular player?

17. There are 6 men and 8 women members of a club. How many committees of seven can be formed:
(i) with 3 women
(ii) with at most 3 women
(iii) with at least 5 women
18. There are three sections in a question paper; each section has 3 questions. A student has to solve all 5 questions, choosing at least one question from each section. In how many ways can the student make his choice?
19. Consider a cryptographic system that generates an 8 -character password. Each character in the password can be either a lowercase letter ( $a \sim f$ ) or a digit ( $0-5$ ). How many passwords can be generated if each password must contain exactly 5 lowercase letters and 3 digits:
(a) with repetition allowed
(b) without repetition
20. On Defense Day, Teacher I compiles a list of 10 distinct national songs, while Teacher II prepares a separate list of 10 different national songs (with no overlap between the two lists). The principal needs to select 3 songs from Teacher I's list, and 3 songs from Teacher II's list.
Determine the number of possible selection methods when:
(i) the order/sequence of the selected songs is important.
(ii) the order/sequence of the selected songs is not important.