### 15.13 TRANSFORMER

A transformer is an electrical device used to change a given alternating emf into a larger or smaller alternating emf. It

works on the principle of mutual induction between two coils.
In principle, the transformer consists of two coils of copper, electrically insulated from each other, wound on the same iron core. The coil to which A.C power is supplied is called primary and that from which power is delivered to the circuit is called the secondary.

It should be noted that there is no electrical connection between the two coils but they are magnetically linked. Suppose that an alternating emf is applied to the primary. If at some instant $t$ the flux in the primary is changing at the rate of $\Delta \Phi / \Delta t$ then there will be back emf induced in the primary which will oppose the applied voltage. The instantaneous value of the self induced emf is given by

$$
\text { Self induced emf }=-N_{p}\left[\frac{\Delta \Phi}{\Delta t}\right]
$$

If the resistance of the coil is negligible then the back emf is equal and opposite to applied voltage $V_{p}$.

$$
V_{p}=-\text { back emf }=N_{p}\left[\frac{\Delta \Phi}{\Delta t}\right]
$$

where $N_{p}$ is the number of turns in the primary.
Assuming the flux through the primary also passes through the secondary, i.e., the two coils are tightly coupled, the rate of change of flux in the secondary will also be $\Delta \Phi / \Delta t$ and the magnitude of the induced emf across the secondary is given by

$$
V_{s}=N_{s}\left[\frac{\Delta \Phi}{\Delta t}\right]
$$

where $N_{s}$ is the number of turns in the secondary
Dividing Eq. 15.31 by Eq.15.30, we get

$$
\frac{V_{s}}{V_{p}}=\frac{N_{s}}{N_{p}}
$$

If $N_{s}>N_{p}$ then according to Eq. 15.32, $V_{s}>V_{p}$, such a transformer in which voltage across secondary is greater than the primary voltage is called a step up transformer (Fig. 15.20 a). Similarly if $N_{s}<N_{p}$, i.e., the number of turns in the secondary is less than the number in primary, then $V_{s}<V_{p}$, such transformer in which voltage across secondary is less than the primary voltage is called a step down transformer (Fig. 15.20 b).

It is important to note that the electrical power in a transformer is transformed from its primary to the secondary coil by means of changing flux. For an ideal case the power inpôt to the primary is nearly equal to the power output from the secondary i.e.,
$I_{p}$ is the current in the primary and $I_{n}$ in the secondary. The currents are thus inversely proportional to the respective voltages. Therefore, in a step up transformer when the voltage across the secondary is raised, the value of current is reduced. This is the principle behind its use in the electric supply network where transformer increases the voltage and reduces the current so that it can be transmitted over long distances without much power loss. When current $I$ passes through a resistance $R$, the power loss due to heating effect is $I^{\prime} R$. Suppose $R$ is the resistance of transmission line. In order to minimize the loss during transmission, it is not possible to reduce $R$ because it requires the use of thick copper wire which becomes highly uneconomical. The purpose is well served by reducing $I$. At the generating power station the voltage is stepped up to several thousand of volts and power is transmitted at low current to long distances without much loss. Step down transformers then decrease the voltage to a safe value at the end of line where the consumer of electric power is located. Inside a house a transformer may be used to step down the voltage from 250 volts to 9 volts for ringing bell or operating a transistor radio. Transformers with several secondaries are used in television and radio receivers where several different voltages are required.
Only in an ideal transformer the output power is nearly equal to the input power. But in an actual transformer, this in not the case. The output is always less than input due to power losses. There are two main causes of power loss, namelyeddy currents and magnetic hysteresis.
In order to enhance the magnetic flux, the primary and secondary coils of the transformer are wound on soft iron core. The flux generated by the coils also passes through the core. As magnetic flux changes through a solid conductor, induced currents are set up in closed paths in the body of the
conductor. These induced currents are set up in a direction perpendicular to the flux and are known as eddy currents. It results in power dissipation and heating of the core material. In order to minimize the power loss due to flow of these currents, the core is laminated with insulation in between the layers of laminations which stops the flow of eddy currents (Fig. 15.21). Hysterises loss is the energy expended to magnetize and demagnetize the core material in each cycle of theA.C.

Due to these power losses, a transformer is far from being an ideal. Its output power is always less than its input power. The efficiency of a transformer is defined as

$$
E=\frac{\text { output power }}{\text { input power }} \times 100
$$

In order to improve the efficiency, care should be exercised, to minimize all the power losses. For example core should be assembled from the laminated sheets of a material whose hysteresis loop area is very small. The insulation between lamination sheets should be perfect so as to stop the flow of eddy currents. The resistance of the primary and secondary coils should be kept to a minimum. As power transfer from primary to secondary takes place through flux linkages, so the primary and secondary coils should be wound in such a way that flux coupling between them is maximum.

Example 15.8: The turns ratios of a step up transformer is 50. A current of 20 A is passed through its primary coil at 220 volts. Obtain the value of the voltage and current in the secondary coil assuming the transformer to be ideal one.

# Solution:

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \frac{N_{\mathrm{B}}}{N_{\mathrm{p}}}=50 \quad, \quad I_{\mathrm{c}}=20 \mathrm{~A} \\
& V_{\mathrm{c}}=220 \mathrm{~V} \quad V_{\mathrm{s}}=? \quad I_{\mathrm{s}}=?
\end{aligned}
$$

Using the equation $\frac{V_{\mathrm{s}}}{V_{\mathrm{p}}}=\frac{I_{\mathrm{p}}}{I_{\mathrm{s}}}$ we get $\frac{V_{\mathrm{s}}}{220}=50$
Voltage in the secondary coil $=V_{\mathrm{s}}=220 \times 50=1100$ volts

$$
I_{\mathrm{s}}=\frac{V_{\mathrm{c}}}{V_{\mathrm{s}}} \times I_{\mathrm{p}}=\frac{1}{50} \times 20=0.4 \mathrm{~A}
$$

# SUMMARY

An emf is set up in a conductor when it moves across a magnetic field. It is called an induced emf.

The emf induced by the motion of a conductor across a magnetic field is called motional emf.

Magnitude of motional emf in a rod of length $L$ moving with velocity $v$ across a magnetic field of strength $B$ making $\theta$ with it is $\varepsilon=v B L \sin \theta$

Faraday's law states that the emf induced in a conducting coil of $N$ loops is equal to the negative of the rate at which the magnetic flux through the coil is changing with time.

The Lenz's law states that the direction of the induced current is always so as to oppose the change which causes the current.

The phenomenon in which a changing current in one coil induces an emf in another coil is called the mutual induction.

One henry is the mutual inductance of that pair of coils in which a change of current of one ampere per second in the primary causes an induced emf of one volt in the secondary.

The phenomenon in which a changing current in a coil induces an emf in itself is called self induction.

A current generator is a device that converts mechanical energy into electrical energy.

The emf produced in a generator is $\varepsilon=\mathrm{N} \omega A B \sin (\omega t)$ or $\varepsilon=\varepsilon_{0} \sin (2 \pi / t)$.
A motor is a device, which converts electrical energy into mechanical energy.
The induced emf in a motor opposes the emf running the motor. This induced emf is called the back emf of the motor.

## QUESTIONS

15.1 Does the induced emf in a circuit depend on the resistance of the circuit? Does the induced current depend on the resistance of the circuit?
15.2 A square loop of wire is moving through a uniform magnetic field. The normal to the loop is oriented parallel to the magnetic field. Is a emf induced in the loop? Give a reason for your answer.
15.3 Alight metallic ring is released from above into a vertical bar magnet (Fig. Q.15.3). Viewed for above, does the current flow clockwise or anticlockwise in the ring?

15.4 What is the direction of the current through resistor $R$ in Fig.Q.15.4?. When switch $S$ is
(a) closed
(b) opened.

Fig. Q. 15.4
15.5 Does the induced emf always act to decrease the magnetic flux through a circuit?
15.6 When the switch in the circuit is closed a current is established in the coil and the metal ring jumps upward (Fig.Q.15.6). Why?
Describe what would happen to the ring if the battery polarity were reversed?

Fig. Q. 15.6
15.7 The Fig.Q. 15.7 shows a coil of wire in the xy plane with a magnetic field directed along the $y$-axis. Around which of the three coordinate axes should the coil be rotated in order to generate an emf and a current in the coil?

Fig. Q. 15.7
15.8 How would you position a flat loop of wire in a changing magnetic field so that there is no emf induced in the loop?
15.9 In a certain region the earth's magnetic field point vertically down. When a plane flies due north, which wingtip is positively charged?
15.10 Show that $\varepsilon$ and $\frac{\Delta \Phi}{\Delta t}$ have the same units.
15.11 When an electric motor, such as an electric drill, is being used, does it also act as a generator? If so what is the consequence of this?
15.12 Can a D.C motor be turned into a D.C generator? What changes are required to be done?
15.13 Is it possible to change both the area of the loop and the magnetic field passing through the loop and still not have an induced emf in the loop?
15.14 Can an electric motor be used to drive an electric generator with the output from the generator being used to operate the motor?
15.15 A suspended magnet is oscillating freely in a horizontal plane. The oscillations are strongly damped when a metal plate is placed under the magnet. Explain why this occurs?

15.16 Four unmarked wires emerge from a transformer. What steps would you take to determine the turns ratio?
15.17 a) Can a step-up transformer increase the power level?
b) In a transformer, there is no transfer of charge from the primary to the secondary. How is, then the power transferred?
15.18 When the primary of a transformer is connected to a.c mains the current in it
a) is very small if the secondary circuit is open, but
b) increases when the secondary circuit is closed. Explain these facts.

# PROBLEMS

15.1 An emf of 0.45 V is induced between the ends of a metal bar moving through a magnetic field of 0.22 T . What field strength would be needed to produce an emf of 1.5 V between the ends of the bar, assuming that all other factors remain the same?
(Ans: 0.73 T )
15.2 The flux density $B$ in a region between the pole faces of a horse-shoe magnet is $0.5 \mathrm{Wbm}^{-1}$ directed vertically downward. Find the emf induced in a straight wire 5.0 cm long, perpendicular to $B$ when it is moved in a direction at an angle of $60^{\circ}$ with the horizontal with a speed of $100 \mathrm{cms}^{-1}$.
(Ans: $1.25 \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~V}$ )
15.3 A coil of wire has 10 loops. Each loop has an area of $1.5 \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~m}^{2}$. A magnetic field is perpendicular to the surface of each loop at all times. If the magnetic field is changed from 0.05 T to 0.06 T in 0.1 s , find the average emf induced in the coil during this time.
(Ans: $+1.5 \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~V}$ )
15.4 A circular coil has 15 turns of radius 2 cm each. The plane of the coil lies at $40^{\circ}$ to a uniform magnetic field of 0.2 T . If the field is increased by 0.5 T in 0.2 s , find the magnitude of the induced emf.
(Ans: $1.8 \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~V}$ )
15.5 Two coils are placed side by side. An emf of 0.8 V is observed in one coil when the current is changing at the rate of $200 \mathrm{As}^{1}$ in the other coil. What is the mutual inductance of the coils?
(Ans: 4 mH )
15.6 A pair of adjacent coils has a mutual inductance of 0.75 H . If the current in the primary changes from 0 to 10 A in 0.025 s , what is the average induced emf in the secondary? What is the change in flux in it if the secondary has 500 turns?
(Ans: $300 \mathrm{~V}, 1.5 \times 10^{-2} \mathrm{~Wb}$ )
15.7 A solenoid has 250 turns and its self inductance is 2.4 mH . What is the flux through each turn when the current is 2 A ? What is the induced emf when the current changes at $20 \mathrm{As}^{1}$ ?
(Ans: $1.92 \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~Wb}, 48 \mathrm{mV}$ )
15.8 A solenoid of length 8.0 cm and cross sectional area $0.5 \mathrm{~cm}^{2}$ has 520 turns. Find the self inductance of the solenoid when the core is air. If the current in the solenoid increases through 1.5 A in 0.2 s , find the magnitude of induced emf in it.
$\left(\mu_{c}=4 \pi \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~WbA}^{-1} \mathrm{~m}^{-1}\right)$
(Ans: $1.6 \times 10^{-3} \mathrm{~V}, 2.12 \times 10^{-4} \mathrm{H}$ )

15.9 When current through a coil changes from 100 mA to 200 mA in 0.005 s , an induced emf of 40 mV is produced in the coil. (a) What is the self inductance of the coil?
(b) Find the increase in the energy stored in the coil.
(Ans: $2 \mathrm{mH}, 0.03 \mathrm{~mJ}$ )
15.10 Like any field, the earth's magnetic field stores enegy. Find the magnetic energy stored in a space where strength of earth's field is $7 \times 10^{-5} \mathrm{~T}$, if the space occupies an area of $10 \times 10^{6} \mathrm{~m}^{2}$ and has a height of 750 m .
(Ans: $1.46 \times 10^{5} \mathrm{~J}$ )
15.11 A square coil of side 16 cm has 200 turns and rotates in a uniform magnetic field of magnitude 0.05 T . If the peak emf is 12 V , what is the angular velocity of the coil
(Ans: 47 rad s $^{-1}$ )
15.12 A generator has a rectangular coil consisting of 360 turns. The coil rotates at 420 rev per min in 0.14 T magnetic field. The peak value of emf produced by the generator is 50 V . if the coil is 5.0 cm wide, find the length of the side of the coil.
(Ans: 45 cm )
15.13 It is desired to make an a.c generator that can produce an emf of maximum value 5 kV with 50 Hz frequency. A coil of area $1 \mathrm{~m}^{2}$ having 200 turns is used as armature. What should be the magnitude of the magnetic field in which the coil rotates?
(Ans: 0.08 T )
15.14 The back emf in a motor is 120 V when the motor is turning at 1680 rev per min. What is the back emf when the motor turns 3360 rev per min?
(Ans: 240 V )
15.15 A D.C motor operates at 240 V and has a resistance of $0.5 \Omega$. When the motor is running at normal speed, the armature current is 15 A . Find the back emf in the armature.
(Ans: 232.5 V )
15.16 A copper ring has a radius of 4.0 cm and resistance of $1.0 \mathrm{~m} \Omega$. A magnetic field is applied over the ring, perpendicular to its plane. If the magnetic field increases from 0.2 T to 0.4 T in a time interval of $5 \times 10^{-5} \mathrm{~s}$, what is the current in the ring during this interval?
(Ans: 201A)
15.17 A coil of 10 turns and $35 \mathrm{~cm}^{2}$ area is in a perpendicular magnetic field of 0.5 T . The coil is pulled out of the field in 1.0 s . Find the induced emf in the coil as it is pulled out of the field.
(Ans: $1.75 \times 10^{-2} \mathrm{~V}$ )
15.18 An ideal step down transformer is connected to main supply of 240 V . It is desired to operate a $12 \mathrm{~V}, 30 \mathrm{~W}$ lamp. Find the current in the primary and the transformation ratio?
(Ans: $0.125 \mathrm{~A}, 1 / 20$ )