## 2

The writer would like to give another example of an illegal activity exposed by Pulitzer's paper. Which choice best accomplishes that goal?
A) NO CHANGE
B) local politics.
C) union rallies.
D) artistic events.

8. The twenty-first century is the age of the city. Today more than half the world's population can be found in cities, and megacities-those with populations of 10 million or more-are on the rise. The world's largest megacity is Tokyo-Yokohama, I which is also referred to as the National Capital Region of Japan. It houses a population of over 37.5 million individuals and contains the world's largest metropolitan economy.

2 Severe traffic congestion is one of the most common challenges that megacities must confront. Although colleges and universities located in small towns as well as large cities may offer many different programs, those located in urban areas are also able to offer their students internships as well as the possibility of gaining experience in a variety of fields. In addition, unemployment rates in large cities tend to be low because major companies maintain large offices that employ hundreds or even thousands of workers. These cities also offer a wide range of entertainment options and cultural institutions such as museums, theaters, and concert venues.

Which choice provides a supporting example that reinforces the main point of the sentence?
A) NO CHANGE
B) which is legally classified as a metropolis.
C) which joins two cities and many prefectures covering 5,200 square miles.
D) which contains a mix of modern skyscrapers and traditional architecture.

Which choice most effectively establishes the main topic of the paragraph?
A) NO CHANGE
B) For many people, cities offer economic, educational or social opportunities not available in smaller or more rural areas.
C) In 1900, London became the first city to have more than five million inhabitants.
D) In addition to Tokyo, Mexico City, Beijing, and New York City are also considered megacities.

# Sentence and Paragraph Order

Sentence and paragraph order questions ask you to identify whether a particular sentence is correctly placed within a paragraph, or whether a particular paragraph is correctly placed within a passage. The presence of bracketed numbers at the beginnings of sentences signals that a question testing sentence order will appear, and the presence of bracketed numbers at the top of each paragraph signals that a question testing paragraph order will appear.

Whenever you see one of these clues, pay close attention to the order of sentences or paragraphs as you read. If you are able to notice - and fix - potential errors before you even look at the questions, you can save yourself a lot of time.