## 2

The best place for paragraph 3 is
A) where it is now.
B) after paragraph 1 .
C) after paragraph 4 .
D) after paragraph 5 .

Solution \#1: The sentence to be added explains how honey is able to remain unspoiled for such a long period. That is the focus of paragraph 2 , so the sentence should logically be placed there. B) is the only option to allow for that placement, so it is correct.

Solution \#2: The word finally indicates that paragraph 3 must be the last paragraph to explain why honey stays fresh. Paragraph 4 also provides an explanation, so paragraph 3 must be placed after paragraph 4. In addition, the phrase thought to promote healing in the last sentence of paragraph 3 transitions logically into paragraph 5 , which discusses honey's medicinal uses. C) is thus correct.

# Exercise: Sentence Order* (answers p. 240)

1. [1] Learning to ride a unicycle might seem like a daunting task, but with the right kind of training aids, it doesn't have to be impossible-or even scary. [2] One option is to use a spotter who walks alongside and catches the rider if he or she falls. [3] Another easy way to learn is to find a narrow hallway: riding in a confined space allows the beginning rider to improve balancing from front-to-back and side-to-side. [4] Likewise, riding between two chairs placed back-to-back teaches the rider how to find a proper starting position. [5] On the other hand, props such as ski poles should not be used because they hinder balance and create dependence. [6] If a hall cannot be found, a fence or clothesline can be used as well.
2. [1] For decades, scientists have hoped for a "solar revolution," a shift from relying on natural gas to heat homes and power cars to harnessing electricity from the sun. [2] The conversion of solar heat into usable energy is accomplished through the use of solar panels-also known as modules - which can be installed directly into the ground, mounted on roofs, or built directly into the walls of a building. [3] Each module is comprised of cells which convert solar radiation into direct current electricity. [4] Solar-powered buildings can even be very large. [5] It's a tantalizing promise: on sunny days, the sun gives off enormous amounts of energy-enough to power houses, office buildings, and schools. [6] In 2011, the world's largest solar-powered office building was constructed, covering over 750,000 square feet.

What is the best placement for sentence 6 ?
A) Where it is now.
B) After sentence 1 .
C) After sentence 2 .
D) After sentence 3 .

Sentence 4 would most effectively be
A) placed after sentence 1 .
B) placed after sentence 2 .
C) placed after sentence 5 .
D) DELETED from the paragraph.
*Because paragraph order is tested so infrequently, questions involving that concept are not included here. An additional example can be found in the practice test, on p. 234.

3. [1] Say the word "sushi," and the first thing that comes to mind is usually an image of raw fish. [2] Initially, the rice was only used to help start the fermenting process, but food shortages later made the rice too valuable to be thrown away. [3] But sushi is about rice as well as fish. [4] It's also the original fast food, dating back to 700 A.D. in Japan. [5] At that time, fish was salted, sandwiched between layers of rice, and pressed with heavy stones, a process that fermented and preserved the fish for months or even years. [6] The curing time was also shortened to three or four weeks, so the fish was closer to being raw when it was consumed.
4. [1] During World War II, Admiral Grace Hopper was stationed at Harvard University, where she worked on IBM's Harvard Mark I computer, the first large-scale computer in the United States. [2] Hopper was only the third person to program this computer, and in 1943, she wrote a manual of operations that lit the path for those who followed her. [3] Then, in the 1950s, she invented the compiler, a device that translated English commands into computer code, allowing programmers to create code more easily and with fewer errors. [4] Hopper's second compiler, the Flow-Matic, was used to program UNIVAC I and II, which were the first computers available commercially. [5] Hopper also oversaw the development of the Common Business-Oriented Language (COBOL), one of the first computer programming languages.

To make the paragraph most logical, sentence 2 should be placed
A) where it is now.
B) before sentence 4 .
C) before sentence 5 .
D) before sentence 6 .

The best placement for sentence 4 is
A) where it is now.
B) before sentence 1 .
C) before sentence 2 .
D) before sentence 3 .

5. [1] Worldwide awareness of Inuit Art originated with the assistance of James Houston, a noted artist, author and designer for the Steuben Glass Company. |2| In the late 1940s, Houston collected a number of small Inuit carvings, which he then sold to help support the Inuit's economic needs. |3| In 1953, Houston solicited his friend Eugene Power to help him import Inuit art into the United States. |4| Power, who owned and operated University Microfilms in Ann Arbor, Michigan, established a non-profit gallery called Eskimo Art Incorporated in Ann Arbor to import the work. |5| The same year, Power encouraged the Cranbrook Institute of Science to host the first exhibition of Inuit Art in the United States. |6| Later, Houston taught the Inuit to make unique stone-cut and sealskin stencil prints, and in 1959, the first collection of Inuit prints was released at Cape Dorset.

The most logical place to begin a new paragraph would be at
A) sentence 2 .
B) sentence 3 .
C) sentence 4 .
D) sentence 6 .

# Infographics

Infographic questions are essentially supporting evidence questions, but because they are presented in such a different format from other Writing questions, they deserve a chapter all to themselves.

On every SAT Writing and Language test, one or two passages will be accompanied by an informational graph or chart. The passage will contain an underlined statement related to the graphic, and you will be responsible for deciding whether the original statement accurately reflects the information in the graphic or whether it must be changed.

There are essentially two types of infographic questions: detail-based questions, which ask you about a specific aspect of the graphic; and big-picture questions, which ask you to identify an overall trend.

Although these questions may initially strike you as somewhat exotic, the most important thing is not to become too flustered by them. Unlike grammar questions, which require you to both recall and apply rules, answers to infographic questions will always be right in front of you. Furthermore, most graphics will be relatively straightforward and will not require any specialized knowledge.