## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) Customer Support provides large-scale structure, while Strategy Management, along with Service and Help Desks, plays a secondary role.
C) Help and Service Desks provide large-scale structure, while Strategy Management and Customer Support play secondary roles.
D) Strategy Management and Customer Support provide large-scale structure, while Service and Help Desks play secondary roles.

This question might seem complicated, but in reality you only need one key piece of information to answer it. The key phrase is large-scale structure. What's the largest circle? Strategy Management. So Strategy Management = large-scale structure. Each answer refers to large-scale structure first, so all you need to look at is the beginning of each answer. D) is the only choice that begins correctly, so it is the only possible answer.

# Exercise: Infographics (answers p. 241)

1. El Niño is a climate pattern in which water in the Pacific Ocean near the equator becomes hotter than usual, affecting the atmosphere and weather around the world. Although El Niño climate conditions are unpredictable, they typically occur every few years. The climate pattern can change the weather of the United States, particularly in California and the southern states. Although El Niño years do not always bring heavy rains, 1 the wettest winters have occurred when El Niño was strong. In addition, El Niño may bring warmer than normal winter temperatures to the eastern part of the United States.
Which choice is best supported by the information in the graph?
A) NO CHANGE
B) strong El Niños always create abnormally wet winters.
C) the amount of rainfall in weak El Niño years has increased over time.
D) the amount of rainfall in weak El Niño years has grown closer to the amount of rainfall in strong El Niño years.

2. Because demand for seafood cannot be adequately met by wild-catch fish, the aquaculture industry makes up market needs. Farmed salmon production represented less than $10 \%$ of the total salmon volume 25 years ago, whereas it now accounts for over $70 \%$ of the salmon market. Between 1979 and 2011, hatchery-raised salmon 2 grew to a volume of over 3,500 tons, while wild-catch salmon has stagnated.