## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) in preventing
C) with preventing
D) preventing

Because the idiomatic phrase is effectiveness in preventing, B) is correct.
Note: when both the to and the -ing form are acceptable, you will not be asked to choose between them.
Correct: During the Seneca Falls convention in 1848, the problem of women's suffrage began taking precedence over other concerns.

Correct: During the Seneca Falls convention in 1848, the problem of women's suffrage began to take precedence over other concerns.

To reiterate: I do not advocate spending long periods of time trying to memorize every possible expression involving to and -ing, even if English is not your first language. It is, however, a good idea to be familiar with a variety of common idioms. On the next page, I have therefore included a chart with some of the most frequently used expressions.

| Idioms with TO | Idioms with -ING |
| :-- | :-- |
| Agree to be | Accused of being |
| Allow to be | Accustomed to being |
| Appear/seem to be | Admired for being |
| Arrange to be | Admit to being |
| Aspire to be | After being |
| Attempt to be | Avoid being |
| Cease to be | Banned from being |
| Choose to be | Before being |
| Claim to be | Consider being |
| Consider to be | Deny being |
| Decide to be | Describe being |
| Decline to be | Discuss being |
| Deserve to be | Effective in/at being |
| Encourage to be | Enjoy being |
| Expect to be | Famous for being |
| Fail to be | Imagine being |
| Have the ability to be | In charge of being |
| Inclined to be | In the hope(s) of being |
| Inspire (someone) to be | (In)capable of being |
| Intend to be | Insist on being |
| Known to be (+ noun) | Known as/for being |
| Manage to be | Mind being |
| Neglect to be | Postpone being |
| Offer to be | Praised for being |
| Prepare to be | Prevent from being |
| Promise to be | Regarded as being |
| Refuse to be | Report being |
| Reluctant to be | Resent being |
| Require to be | Risk being |
| Seek/strive to be | Seen as being |
| Shown to be | Stop being |
| Struggle to be | Succeed in/at being |
| Tend to be | Used to being |
| Threaten to be | Viewed as being |
| Want to be | Without being |
| Wish to be |  |

# Register

Register refers to how formal or informal a writer's language is. Most SAT passages are written in a straightforward, moderately serious tone and are unlikely to contain extremely formal or casual language.

The type of language you use when talking to your friends is most likely very different from the language you use when writing a paper for school. In the former situation, you're likely to speak casually, using slang phrases such as really cool or lots of stuff.

If you were writing a paper, however, you'd be much more likely to employ moderately formal language and to use phrases such as extremely interesting or many different things. (You could, of course, write really cool in an English paper, but chances are your teacher wouldn't be very, uh, cool with that.)

You also wouldn't - or at least shouldn't - write things like a plethora of enthralling objects. Used selectively and precisely, "ten-dollar words" can be perfectly relevant and acceptable, but if you're just using them to show off, chances are you'll make it a lot harder for readers to follow what you're actually saying. Unless you read non-stop and have a phenomenal vocabulary, there's also a pretty good chance that you will misuse some of them and end up sounding pretty silly.

The point the SAT is trying to make is that you shouldn't go around using big words simply for the sake of doing so. The goal of writing is to communicate your ideas to your readers, and you should therefore aim to be as clear and direct as possible.

As a result, incorrect answers to register questions will be either too casual (although often not nearly as casual as in the examples above) or, less often, excessively formal. Correct answers will be somewhere in the middle.

For example:

During the Nimrod Expedition in 1907, Ernest Shackleton led a group of explorers on a voyage to the South Pole. Shackleton and the members of his party endured a great number of hardships, but when they finally arrived, they I saw some really great things.