## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) perceived myriad captivating visuals.
C) were greeted by many fascinating sights.
D) noticed a pretty interesting arrangement.
A) and D) are both more casual than the rest of the passage, whereas B) is too formal. C) is correctly written in a neutral, moderately serious tone.

Like diction questions, register questions are difficult to study for because they require you to be familiar with linguistic conventions and to distinguish between informal, moderately formal, and extremely formal writing - skills that are best honed through consistent, long-term exposure to a variety of writing styles.

# Exercise: Diction, Idioms, and Register (answers p. 242)

1. Mt. Kilimanjaro. Like the mountain, which is

I swept in clouds, the name Kilimanjaro is a mystery. It might mean Mountain of Light, Mountain of Greatness, or Mountain of Caravans. Locals refer to it simply as Kipo. Not only is Mt. Kilimanjaro the highest mountain on the African continent, but at nearly 20,000 feet, it is also the tallest free-standing mountain in the world. Although Mt. Kilimanjaro was once a volcano that erupted regularly, it has 2 exhibited a dearth of activation for thousands of years.
2. Just a few decades from now, the days of sitting in a standard forward-facing seat may be air-travel history. As the health of the travel industry has improved, airlines have shifted their focus 1 at the flying experience. A recent wave of aircraft deliveries has 2 spurred demand for seats, and manufacturers around the world are working overtime in order to keep up. All this business has led to a frenzy of innovation not seen in the skies since the jet-set era of the 1960s. While airlines 3 seek impressing passengers with futuristic amenities, design teams are hard at work problemsolving for the needs of travelers in the years to come.
3. Some people call the durian "the king of fruit." Others can't stand to be within a mile of it. 1. Elevated throughout Southeast Asia, the durian resembles a cross between a porcupine and a pineapple, and it can weigh as much as seven pounds. Its most striking feature, however, is its odor. The flesh 2. emits a pungent smell, even when the husk is intact. While durian fans regard the fruit as having a pleasantly sweet fragrance, others find the aroma overpowering and even revolting. The smell can 3. illicit reactions ranging from deep appreciation to intense disgust: people claim that it is similar 4. with the smell of rotten onions, turpentine, or sewage. On the other hand, the durian's taste has been compared to that of custard or caramel. Some people even 5. claim to call it sublime.