## 4

A) NO CHANGE
B) century many consider
C) century. Many consider
D) century; many considering

Unfortunately, there's no way to answer this question for sure without knowing whether you're dealing with one sentence or two. You might eliminate B) and D) because they sound awkward, but then you're stuck between A) and C). If you think the second clause is a sentence, you'll want to put in a period and choose C). But if it isn't a sentence, then the comma must be all right, and the answer must be A).

You stare at the question for a while, thinking it over. Many consider him to be among the greatest jazz musicians of all time... That sounds kind of weird. Besides, what sort of sentence would just say many, without saying many of what? You can say many people, that's fine, but not just many. It just sounds wrong. You don't even know who the sentence is talking about. You can't start a sentence like that. Unless it's some kind of trick... But C) is just too weird. No way can that be the answer.

So you pick A).
But actually, the answer is C).
You've just fallen into a classic trap - you thought that because Many consider him the greatest jazz musician of all time didn't make sense out of context, it couldn't be a sentence. But guess what: whether a statement is or is not a sentence has absolutely nothing to do with its meaning.

Beginning on the next page, we're going to take a very simple sentence and look at the various elements that can get added onto it without changing the fact that it's a sentence. We're also going to look at some common types of fragments and how they get formed.

# Building a Sentence

Every sentence must contain two things:

1) A subject
2) A conjugated verb that corresponds to the subject.

A sentence can contain only one word (Go! is a sentence because the subject, you, is implied) or consist of many complex clauses, but provided it contains a subject and a verb, it can be considered grammatically complete regardless of whether it makes sense outside of any context.