## I

Which of the following would NOT be an acceptable alternative to the underlined portion?
A) growers. Each grower
B) growers, each grower
C) growers; each grower
D) growers, and each grower

Don't get too concerned about the dash in the original version. (We'll talk about that form of punctuation later, and it's not important here.) If you know that the period in A), the semicolon in C), and comma + and in D) are the same, you can immediately eliminate all of those answers. Only B) remains. That answer creates a comma splice when plugged into the sentence, so it is indeed NOT an acceptable alternative to the underlined portion.

# Comma Splices and How to Fix Them

When a comma alone is used to separate two independent clauses, the result is known as a comma splice. Comma splices are always incorrect.

Shortcut: commas splices are often signaled by the construction comma + pronoun (e.g., it, he, she, they, one). Whenever you see this construction underlined, you should immediately be on your guard.

Incorrect: Tomatoes are used in many different types of cooking, farmers around the world grow many varieties of them in both fields and greenhouses.

Recall from the previous chapter that an independent clause can start with a pronoun (it, they, many, some), as in the first example below, or with an adverb, as in the second sentence below. Remember also that an independent clause does not need to make sense out of context to be a grammatically complete sentence. On the SAT, many - if not most - comma splices involve second clauses that begin with pronouns.

Correct: Tomatoes are used in many different types of cooking.
Correct: They are grown in both fields and greenhouses around the world.
Incorrect: Tomatoes are used in many different types of cooking, they are grown in both fields and greenhouses around the world.

Correct: The ramparts of Old Quebec were constructed during the seventeenth century.
Correct: Today, they still stand in their original location.
Incorrect: The ramparts of Old Quebec were constructed during the seventeenth century, today they still stand in their original location.

There are multiple ways to fix comma splices, and the SAT does not prefer any particular method. Some questions will require you to correct them with a period, while others will require you to fix them using a semicolon, comma + FANBOYS, or even another construction entirely.

Incorrect: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored, they are mostly large and red today.

Correct: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored. They are mostly large and red today.

Correct: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored; they are mostly large and red today.

We can also leave the comma and add a FANBOYS conjunction, or drop it and add semicolon + however.
Correct: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored, but they are mostly large and red today.

Correct: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored; however, they are mostly large and red today.

Another option is to turn one of the independent clauses into a dependent clause, often by adding a subordinating conjunction such as because, while, or although. (For a more extensive list, see p. 82.)

When a dependent clause is joined with an independent clause to form a complete sentence, a comma alone can be placed between the clauses. In the sentences below, the dependent clause is in bold.

Correct: Although tomatoes were originally small and multicolored, they are mostly large and red today.

Correct: Originally small and multicolored, tomatoes are mostly large and red today.
Correct: Tomatoes are one of the most popular cooking ingredients, used in soups, stews, and salads in many different cuisines.

# Combining Sentences with Participles

Earlier we saw how answers ending in -ing are often incorrect because they either lead to wordy and awkward constructions or create fragments. When questions involve comma splices, however, answers that contain -ing (participles) are considerably more likely to be correct because they create dependent clauses and prevent commas from separating two full sentences.

Incorrect: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored, they became large and red only during the nineteenth century.

Correct: Tomatoes were originally small and multicolored, becoming large and red only during the nineteenth century.

In the context of a passage, this type of answer could show up in several ways:

Choreographer and dancer Savion Glover aims to restore the African roots of 1 tap dance, he eliminates hand gestures to focus on the feet as the primary source of movement.