## 2

What is the best way of joining the sentences at the underlined portion?
A) tap dance, for this reason he eliminates
B) tap dance; and he eliminates
C) tap dance, consequently, he eliminates
D) tap dance, eliminating

Although the questions on the previous page are asked in slightly different ways, they are testing the same essential concept.

In both versions, B) can be eliminated because the FANBOYS conjunction and should only follow a comma, not a semicolon.
C) can be eliminated because consequently is not a FANBOYS conjunction and should only follow a period or a semicolon.

In the first example, A) can be eliminated because it contains a comma splice (tipoff: comma + he).
In the second example, A) can be eliminated because it contains a comma splice and is wordy.
In both examples, D) correctly joins the sentences using the participle eliminating.

# With...-ING

Finally, note that the construction with ... -ing can be used as an alternative to and + verb.
For example, the sentence below can be written two ways:
Correct: The Mid-Autumn Festival, a popular harvest festival, dates back 3,000 years to China's Shang Dynasty, and celebrations usually take place on the fifteenth day of the eighth month.

Correct: The Mid-Autumn Festival, a popular harvest festival, dates back 3,000 years to China's Shang Dynasty, with celebrations usually taking place on the fifteenth day of the eighth month.

Because these two constructions are equivalent, you will not be asked to choose between them. You should, however, be able to recognize that the second version is grammatically acceptable and have a general understanding of how it is used.

# Exercise: Periods, Semicolons, and Commas + FANBOYS (answers p. 244)

1. Many common substances found in household items are dangerous to people's 1 health, however, experts insist that they are harmless in very small amounts. In addition, factors such as temperature or length of exposure may affect substances' potential to cause harm.
2. Universities have historically offered a wide variety of continuing education 1 classes, some of them are now offered over the Internet as well as in traditional classrooms. In fact, the number of classes offered electronically has skyrocketed over the past decade and is expected to continue to increase.
3. Gwendolyn Knight painted throughout her 1 life, she did not start seriously exhibiting her work until relatively late. Her first gallery exhibit took place when she was in her fifties, and her first retrospective exhibit occurred when she was nearly 80 years old. Entitled "Never Too Late for Heaven," it took place at the Tacoma Museum of Art in Tacoma, Washington, in 2003.
4. African-American life during the 1920s was documented in great detail by the writers and artists of the Harlem Renaissance. Far less is known about it during the 1 Depression in the 1930s, the market for their work disappeared almost overnight when the stock market crashed.
A) NO CHANGE
B) health; however, experts insist
C) health, but experts insisting
D) health, nevertheless, experts insist