## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) Depression in the 1930s the market
C) Depression. In the 1930s, the market
D) Depression, in the 1930s the market

5. The geologic instability known as the Pacific Ring of Fire has produced numerous I faults. They cause approximately 10,000 earthquakes annually. Roughly $90 \%$ of all earthquakes occur along the Ring of Fire, and the ring is dotted with three-quarters of all active volcanoes on Earth.
6. Nestled in the middle of three southern provinces, Doñana National Park is one of Europe's most significant conservation I areas, it is a maze of lagoons, marshes, lakes, cliffs, woodlands, and long stretches of pristine beaches untouched by human development. The park contains miles of trails, and visitors can spend hours hiking, biking, and admiring the hundreds of bird species that cluster in the trees.
7. Frank Lloyd Wright (June 8, 1867 - April 9, 1959) was many 1 things in addition to being an architect who designed more than 1,000 buildings, he was also an interior designer and writer. His architectural philosophy held that buildings should be designed in harmony with people and their surrounding environments. This idea, which became known as organic architecture, was best exemplified by his design for the Fallingwater home (1935): a house built into the side of a hill and balanced over a waterfall. Used as Wright's summer 2 residence, and it is considered a masterpiece of American architecture.

Which of the following would NOT be an acceptable alternative to the underlined portion?
A) faults, they cause
B) faults; they cause
C) faults that cause
D) faults, which cause

A) NO CHANGE
B) areas, a maze
C) areas, this is a maze
D) areas it is a maze

A) NO CHANGE
B) things, in addition to being an architect
C) things. In addition to being an architect
D) things in addition to being an architect,

A) NO CHANGE
B) residence. It is considered
C) residence; it is considered
D) residence, it is considered

8. When it came to food, a pirate's life could be

1 difficult living at sea, far from major seaports, meant that hunger was a normal part of daily living. The absence of warm, dry storage spaces put normal pantry staples such as flour and dried beans at a high risk of mold. Climate also presented preservation 2 problems, keeping fresh fruits and meats was next to impossible in warmer waters. Moreover, fresh water was difficult to keep during long sea voyages because it could easily be contaminated by algae and microbes.
9. Norman Rockwell's paintings depicting everyday life appealed to a vast 1 audience in the 1950s, Rockwell became one of the most popular artists in the United States. Rockwell is most famous for the cover illustrations he created for The Saturday Evening 2 Post, he published hundreds of images over the course of four decades.
10. Scientists have long believed that camels originated in North America and then spread throughout the world, 1 a theory that was first proposed after a camel fossil was discovered in Canada's Yukon Territory in 1913. As researchers eventually discovered, these camels were much larger than their modern 2 counterparts, they had long, massive limbs and long spines on the thoracic vertebra, creating a large hump.