## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) difficult. Living at sea
C) difficult, living at sea,
D) difficult, living at sea

A) NO CHANGE
B) problems keeping fresh fruits
C) problems, keeping fresh fruits,
D) problems; keeping fresh fruits

A) NO CHANGE
B) audience, in the 1950 s ,
C) audience in the 1950 s
D) audience. In the 1950 s ,
A) NO CHANGE
B) Post; publishing
C) Post, having published
D) Post he published

A) NO CHANGE
B) this first being proposed
C) this theory was first proposed
D) and the first theory proposed

A) NO CHANGE
B) counterparts. They had
C) counterparts that they had
D) counterparts and having

# Transitions

In the previous chapter, we looked at various ways of joining sentences in terms of grammar. Now, however, we're going to look at joining sentences in terms of meaning. On the SAT, you must also be able to recognize when transitions do and do not create logical connections between two sentences or, less frequently, between two parts of a sentence. Usually, these questions contain four grammatically acceptable answers; the focus is on testing your ability to identify the most logical option in context.

Transition questions are one of the most common question types, with each test containing four or five such items - around $10 \%$ of the test. As a result, you should make sure that you are comfortable working with the most commonly tested transitions. (A complete list is provided on the following page.)

Let's start by looking at a typical example:

Architects don't often become as famous as other types of artists, such as I painters. Consequently, architects' work can have greater long-term effects. Buildings shelter and protect us throughout our lives for home, work, and play. Even if we've never stood in any of the buildings designed by master architects, we've probably been in plenty of buildings that incorporate their influences.