## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) painters. However, architects' work can have
C) painters. In fact, architects' work can have
D) painters. Similarly, architects' work can have

The answers contain different types of transitions, indicating different types of relationships between the sentences. We must therefore begin by considering how the two statements relate to one another.

The first sentence states that architects don't often become as famous other types of artists. The second sentence states that architects' work can have greater long-term effects. Those are opposite ideas, so a transition conveying a contrast is required.

Consequently is used to indicate a result, so A) can be eliminated. In fact is used to emphasize a preceding statement, so C) can also be eliminated. Similarly is, by definition, used to connect two statements that express similar ideas, so D) does not fit either. However indicates a contrasting relationship, so B) is correct.

Notice that we were able to eliminate answers solely by using the purpose, or function, of each transition. Because we knew beforehand what purpose the correct word had to have, we did not need to take the time to plug each option back into the passage.

# Types of Transitions

Continuers indicate that two sentences are expressing similar ideas.
Correct: Erenna sirena, a relative of the jellyfish, is one of the rare marine organisms to emit red light. Indeed, only a few other deep-sea creatures produce light that color.

Contradictors indicate that two sentences are expressing different ideas.
Correct: An increased reliance on computerized systems can leave individuals vulnerable to cyber attacks. However, current defenses are stronger than many people realize.

Cause-and-Effect words indicate that one action is the result of another.
Correct: The light from most quasars was emitted 15 billion years ago. Therefore, they are a unique clue to how the universe looked when it was only a quarter of its present age

The chart below includes some common transitions. (For definitions, see the glossary on p. 104.) The transitions that appear most frequently as answer choices are marked with an asterisk. You should also be aware that on recent exams, however and for example/instance have often appeared as correct answers, whereas therefore, consequently, and likewise have often appeared as incorrect answers. These are general patterns, however, so you must consider the context of each particular question.

| Continuers | Contradictors | Cause-and-Effect |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| Add Information <br> Also <br> And <br> Furthermore <br> In addition* <br> Moreover | Alternatively <br> (Al)though <br> But <br> Conversely <br> Despite/In spite of <br> Even so <br> Even though <br> However* <br> In any case <br> Instead <br> Meanwhile <br> Nevertheless* <br> Nonetheless <br> In other words <br> That is <br> Emphasize <br> In fact <br> Indeed <br> Compare <br> Likewise* <br> Similarly <br> Sequence of Events <br> Previously <br> Subsequently* <br> Finally <br> While | Accordingly* <br> As a result <br> As such <br> Because <br> Consequently <br> For <br> Hence <br> Since <br> So <br> Thus <br> Therefore* <br> To these ends |

# How to Work Through Transition Questions

Important: As soon as you encounter a transition question, pick up your pencil and physically cross out the transition in the original sentence. Do not just draw a line in your imagination. If you need to erase the line later to look at the original version... well, that's why you work in pencil.

The simple fact that a particular transition is already present in the passage means that you are likely to be subconsciously biased toward it. If you think it sounds okay upon a first reading, you're more likely to want to stick with it - even if it doesn't really make sense. Crossing out the transition allows you to focus on what each sentence or part of a sentence is saying. If you ignore this step, sooner or later you are likely to get confused and miss a question you could have gotten right.

Once you have crossed out the transition, reread both sentences or parts of the sentence. Then, determine whether the parts before and after the transition express similar or different ideas. If they express similar ideas, you can eliminate contradictors, e.g., but or however. If they express different ideas, you can eliminate continuers and cause-and-effect words, e.g., for example or therefore.

Also: If two or more answers contain grammatically identical synonyms, those answers can be automatically eliminated because no question can have more than one right answer. So, for example, if choice A) is consequently and choice C) is therefore, you can immediately eliminate both.

Let's look at an example:

Conditions in the interior of Antarctica are inhospitable to many forms of life: sub-zero temperatures, high winds, and extreme dryness make it impossible for most animals to survive. The Antarctic Peninsula and the surrounding islands have milder temperatures and liquid water; I however, more species are able to thrive there.

I
A) NO CHANGE
B) in contrast,
C) nevertheless,
D) accordingly,

In this case, the answer choices provide a useful shortcut. However, in contrast, and nevertheless are all contradictors with more or less equivalent meanings. As a result, all of those answers can be eliminated right away. D) must be the correct answer by default. (If you think accordingly sounds a little awkward, by the way, you're right. That's intentional here. Sometimes, the right answer won't sound particularly good. Your job is to ignore that and choose the meaning that fits best in context.)

Although the College Board will not usually be quite so generous, from time to time you may encounter questions that can be answered this way. Particularly when the relationship between two statements is not entirely straightforward, this approach can be very useful. For an excellent illustration of this principle, see Test 6, \#43 in the Official Guide. Choices B), C), and D) are all contradictors, leaving A) as the only possibility.

In most cases, however, "playing synonyms" will only allow you to eliminate two options. The remaining answers you will need to consider more closely.

Conditions in the interior of Antarctica are inhospitable to many forms of life: sub-zero temperatures, high winds, and extreme dryness make it impossible for most animals to survive. The Antarctic Peninsula and the surrounding islands have milder temperatures and liquid water; I however, more species are able to thrive there.