## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) for example,
C) nevertheless
D) therefore,

In this version, we can still eliminate A) and C) right away because however and nevertheless are synonyms. For example and therefore are different types of continuers, so we need to consider them in context.

The first thing we need to do is cross out the underlined transition so that we don't get distracted by it:
The Antarctic Peninsula and the surrounding islands have milder temperatures and liquid water; however more animals are able to thrive there.

Now, we need to consider what each half of the sentence is saying, looking at the paragraph for context:

1) Weather conditions on the Antarctic Peninsula are milder than those in the Antarctic interior.
2) More animals are able to thrive on the Antarctic Peninsula.

Although for example might sound tempting, the second statement is not actually an example of the first. A far more logical relationship is that the second statement is the result of the first. D) is thus correct.

Note: In very rare cases, the College Board might make an exception to the "synonym" rule and ask you to make an extremely fine distinction between two similar transitions. This question type has appeared only once, on a non-administered exam (Test 2, \#25), but I am addressing it here for the sake of thoroughness.

Conditions in the interior of Antarctica are inhospitable to many forms of life: sub-zero temperatures, high winds, and extreme dryness make it impossible for most animals to survive. I Nevertheless, the Antarctic Peninsula and the surrounding islands have milder temperatures and liquid water.