## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) However,
C) For example,
D) In other words,

Although however and nevertheless are usually interchangeable on the SAT, in this case however is a slightly better fit. Technically, nevertheless means "despite [the previous statement]," but the Antarctic Peninsula's milder weather does not really exist in spite of the harsher weather in the interior. It is simply a different location with a different climate. B) is thus correct.

# Transitions in the Middle of a Sentence

In the examples we've looked at so far, transitions have appeared at the beginnings of sentences or clauses a construction that makes it pretty clear you need to back up and read the preceding information. In some cases, however, the transition may appear between two commas in the middle of a sentence.

Although questions containing this construction may appear to ask about only one sentence, they are actually testing your ability to identify the relationship between two sentences: the sentence that contains the underlined transition and the previous sentence.

Compare these two versions of the following sentence:
Version \#1: Therefore, tropical marine mammals have very few fat reserves in their bodies.
Version \#2: Tropical marine mammals, therefore, have very few fat reserves in their bodies.
The difference between these two sentences is purely stylistic - the sentences have the exact same meaning. In both cases, the transition serves to connect the sentence to a previous statement.

Let's look at how that works in context:

Healthy arctic marine mammals have a thick layer of fat beneath the skin. Tropical marine mammals, I therefore, have very few fat reserves in their bodies, As a result, many of them dwell primarily in the warm waters that surround coral reefs.