## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) likewise,
C) however,
D) for example,

To see why the transition can't connect the two halves of the sentence in which it appears, we can cross it out and consider the information before and after it separately.

1) Tropical marine mammals
2) have very few fat reserves in their bodies

What should be immediately apparent is that there is no logical relationship between these two statements. They simply make no sense when read separately.

The transition does, however, serve to clarify the relationship between this sentence and the previous sentence. So now we're going to back up and consider those two sentences, again crossing out the transition.

1) Healthy arctic marine mammals have a thick layer of fat beneath the skin.
2) Tropical marine mammals, therefore, have very few fat reserves in their bodies.

The two sentences express contrasting ideas: a thick layer of fat vs. very few fat reserves. A contradictor is thus required. Therefore, likewise, and for example are all continuers, leaving C), however, as the only option.

Occasionally, you may also be asked to work with a transition that is genuinely intended to connect two parts of the same sentence. These transitions will follow only one comma.

For example, consider this version of the question on the previous page:

Healthy arctic marine mammals have a thick layer of fat beneath the skin, I so tropical marine mammals have very few fat reserves in their bodies. As a result, tropical marine mammals dwell primarily in the warm waters that surround coral reefs.

I
A) NO CHANGE
B) for
C) whereas
D) and

This time, we do need to consider the two halves of the sentence in which the transition appears. As always, we start by crossing out the transition.

1) Healthy arctic marine mammals have a thick layer of fat beneath the skin.
2) Tropical marine mammals have very few fat reserves in their bodies.

Those are two contrasting ideas, so a contradictor is required, making C) the only possible answer.

# Combining Sentences

Still other transition questions will give you two complete sentences and ask you to identify the best way to combine them.

For example, the question we've been looking at could also be asked this way:

Healthy arctic marine mammals have a thick layer of fat beneath the I skin. Tropical marine mammals have very few fat reserves in their bodies. As a result, tropical marine mammals dwell primarily in the warm waters that surround coral reefs.

I
What is the best way to join the sentences at the underlined portion?
A) skin, for tropical marine mammals
B) skin, and tropical marine mammals
C) skin, whereas tropical marine mammals
D) skin; moreover, tropical marine mammals

Again, the two sentences convey opposite ideas, so a contradictor is required.
In A), for (synonym for because) indicates a cause-and-effect relationship, so the original version can be eliminated. Both B) and D) contain continuers, so those answers can be crossed out as well.
C) correctly uses the contradictor whereas to convey the contrasting relationship between the two parts of the sentence.

# No Transition or DELETE

It is also possible that no transition will be required. The presence of an answer choice without a transition, or with a DELETE option, suggests that a transition may not be necessary. Such choices accompany transition questions only rarely, but if you do encounter one, you should make sure to check it first.

Let's look at an example:

Conditions in the interior of Antarctica are inhospitable to many forms of life. I Therefore, subzero temperatures, high winds, and extreme dryness make it impossible for most animals to survive.