## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) life; however, sub-zero temperatures,
C) life, so sub-zero temperatures,
D) life: sub-zero temperatures,

This might look like a question about punctuation, but don't be fooled! All of the punctuation is acceptable, which is generally the case for transition questions. Instead, focus on the relationships created by the different types of transition.

Whereas and however are general synonyms, so A) and B) can be eliminated.
Although the two halves of the sentence express similar ideas, the second half is not actually a result of the first. C) can thus be eliminated as well.

By default, D) must be the answer.

Another somewhat underhanded way in which "no transition" options can be tested involves double transitions. As a rule, only one transition should be used to indicate the relationship between two clauses. The inclusion of two transitions is both redundant and grammatically unacceptable. To correct this error, you must eliminate one of the transitions.

Incorrect: Although the tomato is actually a fruit, but many people believe that it is a vegetable.
Correct: Although the tomato is actually a fruit, many people believe that it is a vegetable.
Correct: The tomato is actually a fruit, but many people believe that it is a vegetable.
If two different types of transitions (e.g., a continuer and a contradictor) are used, you must not only eliminate one of the transitions but also recognize which one creates a logical relationship between the parts of the sentence.

Incorrect: Although the tomato is actually a fruit, and many people believe that it is a vegetable.
Incorrect: The tomato is actually a fruit, and many people believe that it is a vegetable.
Correct: Although the tomato is actually a fruit, many people believe that it is a vegetable.
While this rule is fairly straightforward, it can be somewhat trickier in practice. Sentences can be long, and you can easily overlook information at the beginning of a sentence when the underlined information appears several lines down.

For example:

Conditions in the interior of Antarctica are inhospitable to many forms of life: sub-zero temperatures, high winds, and extreme dryness make it impossible for most animals to survive. Because the Antarctic Peninsula and the surrounding islands have milder temperatures and liquid I water, and more animals are able to thrive there.