## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) they were discovered in the 1840 s .
C) they lie close to the Antarctic continent.
D) most of them are still covered in ice.

The first part of the sentence talks about the milder climate of the Antarctic Peninsula, and the contradictor but indicates that what follows must convey the opposite idea. D) fulfills that requirement because of the phrase still covered in ice. The other options do not create the correct contrast.

# Glossary of Transitions

Accordingly
$\}$Therefore, as a result

Consequently

Correct: Dolphins are social animals. Consequently, they live in pods of up to a dozen animals.

Correct: Dolphins are social animals. Accordingly, they live in pods of up to a dozen animals.

Furthermore
$\}$In addition

Moreover

Correct: Dolphins are social animals. Furthermore, they are highly intelligent.
$\left.\begin{array}{l}\text { Correct: } \quad \text { Dolphins are social animals. Moreover, they are highly intelligent. } \\ \text { In fact }\end{array}\right\}$Used to emphasize a preceding statement

Indeed

Correct: Dolphins are highly intelligent. In fact, they are one of the smartest mammals.
$\left.\begin{array}{l}\text { Correct: } \quad \text { Dolphins are highly intelligent. Indeed, they are one of the smartest mammals. }\end{array}\end{array}$

Even so
Still
Despite this, however

Nevertheless

Correct: Dolphins are descended from land-dwelling animals. Nevertheless, they can only survive in water.

Correct: Dolphins are descended from land-dwelling animals. Even so, they can only survive in water.

Correct: Dolphins are descended from land-dwelling animals. Still, they can only survive in water.

Whereas - Although
Correct: A salmon is a type of fish, whereas a dolphin is a type of mammal.

As such - As a + noun
As such is one of the trickier transitions, and it's best explained with an example.
Let's start with this sentence:
Correct: Dolphins are social animals. Because they are social animals, they live in pods of up to a dozen animals.

We can also write it this way:
Correct: Dolphins are social animals. As social animals, they live in pods of up to a dozen animals.

These sentences are fine grammatically, but the repetition of the phrase social animals in the second sentence is awkward. To eliminate the repetition, we can replace the phrase as social animals with as such.

Correct: Dolphins are social animals. As such, they live in pods of up to a dozen animals.

Likewise - Similarly, In the same way
Correct: As mammals, dolphins are warm blooded. Likewise, they nourish their young with milk.

Meanwhile - Literally, at the same time; often used as a synonym for however, to indicate a contrast.
Correct: Many people think of dolphins as fish. Meanwhile, they ignore scientific research, which long ago established that dolphins are actually mammals.

Subsequently - Afterward
Correct: In the 1980s, dolphin populations began to decline because too many animals were caught in fishing nets. Subsequently, fishing companies began taking steps to reassure customers that products were "dolphin safe."

That is - In other words; provides a definition or explanation, and often follows a dash.
Correct: Dolphins are mammals - that is, they are warm blooded and nourish their young with milk.

# Exercise: Transitions 2 (answers p. 246)

1. On the screen, three people walk in a garden. The image is black-and-white, and the figures move in a jerky way. After a few seconds, they disappear. Filmed in 1888, Roundhay Garden Scene seems primitive in comparison to the slick, sophisticated Hollywood films of today. I Therefore, it is the oldest surviving film in existence.
2. In 1959, Project Mercury became the first human spaceflight program led by NASA. The project was aimed at putting an American into orbit before the Soviet Union could accomplish that goal. The program allowed seven astronauts to travel into space; I for instance, it was shut down only four years after it began.
3. Chimpanzees and bonobo monkeys resemble each other physically, but their social behaviors differ greatly. Chimpanzees have an omnivorous diet, a troop hunting culture, and complex social relationships. Bonobo monkeys, I in contrast, eat mostly fruit, rarely hunt, and do not have a strict social hierarchy.
4. A gamelan is a traditional musical ensemble from Indonesia, usually from the islands of Java and Bali. Gamelans typically feature a variety of instruments, including xylophones, gongs, and bamboo flutes. Some ensembles also include vocalists. I Thus, gamelan music is an integral part of Indonesian culture.
A) NO CHANGE
B) However,
C) In fact,
D) Accordingly,
A) NO CHANGE
B) besides
C) likewise,
D) however,
A) NO CHANGE
B) therefore,
C) moreover,
D) consequently,
A) NO CHANGE
B) Nonetheless, gamelan music
C) For example, gamelan music
D) Gamelan music

5. Modern technology offers remarkable opportunities for self-expression and communication. it offers many possibilities for distraction.
6. In order to save an endangered species, preservationists must study it in detail. $\qquad$ scientific information about some endangered animals is scarce.
7. Pyramids are most commonly associated with ancient Egypt. $\qquad$ many people are surprised to learn that the Nubians, who lived in modern-day Sudan, constructed a far greater number of pyramids than the Egyptians did.
8. Modern chemistry keeps insects from ravaging crops, removes stains, and saves lives. $\qquad$ constant exposure to chemicals is taking a toll on many people's health.
9. In the Middle Ages, fairs often attracted large crowds and led to rioting. $\qquad$ authorities were reluctant to grant permission for fairs to be held.

Step 1: Continue Contrast Cause-and-Effect
Step 2:
A) Accordingly,
B) To these ends,
C) For instance,
D) Alternatively,

Step 1: Continue Contrast Cause-and-Effect
Step 2:
A) However,
B) Therefore,
C) In fact,
D) Likewise,

Step 1: Continue Contrast Cause-and-Effect
Step 2:
A) Consequently,
B) Indeed,
C) In any case,
D) For example,

Step 1: Continue Contrast Cause-and-Effect
Step 2:
A) Moreover,
B) Subsequently,
C) Similarly,
D) However,

Step 1: Continue Contrast Cause-and-Effect
Step 2:
A) Essentially,
B) Nevertheless,
C) Therefore,
D) Meanwhile,

10. Skilled managers are in high demand. management professionals with the right experience and credentials are currently some of the most sought-after professionals in the world.

Step 1: Continue Contrast Cause-and-Effect
Step 2:
A) Nevertheless,
B) Indeed,
C) Besides,
D) However,

# Exercise: Identifying Non-Essential Words and Phrases (answers p. 248)

In the following sentences, place commas around non-essential phrases as necessary. If you are uncertain whether a section of the sentence is non-essential, cross it out and read the sentence without it. Note that some sentences contain additional, unrelated commas.

| 1. | The cesium fountain atomic clock the most precise form of timekeeper available is expected to <br> become inaccurate by less than a single second over the next 50 million years. |
| :-- | :-- |
| 2. | Frank Gehry's buildings critics agree are among the most important examples of contemporary <br> architecture found in the United States. |
| 3. | The most common types of coral which are usually found in clear, shallow waters require sunlight <br> in order to grow. |
| 4. | Used in some martial arts, the Red Belt one of several colored belts intended to denote a <br> practitioner's skill level and rank originated in Japan and Korea. |
| 5. | Testing animal cognition is tricky, and comparing and contrasting across species lines especially <br> when distinct species-specific tests are used is particularly challenging. |
| 6. | New Zealand one of the last lands to be settled by humans developed distinctive animal and plant <br> life during its long isolation. |
| 7. | Forensic biology the application of biology to law enforcement has been used to identify illegal <br> products from endangered species and investigate bird collisions with wind turbines. |
| 8. | Human computers who once performed basic numerical analysis for laboratories were behind the <br> calculations for everything from the first accurate prediction of the return of Halley's Comet to the <br> success of the Manhattan Project. |
| 9. | The wingspan of the monarch butterfly a species commonly mistaken for the similar-looking <br> viceroy butterfly ranges from 8.9 to 10.2 centimeters. |
| 10. | Some traditional assumptions about how to treat jellyfish stings have recently been called into <br> question: rinsing the affected areas with seawater for example only spreads the stings to a larger <br> area. |

5. Many people fear or dislike spiders, but these creatures are mostly beneficial because they prey on insects and other pests. The spiders commonly seen out in the open during the day are usually harmless and rarely bite people. Poisonous species, 1 for instance, spend most of their time in woodpiles, corners, or boxes, and rarely come into contact with humans.
6. 1 Although computerized fingerprint scanners have been a staple of spy movies for decades, but until recently, they were rarely found in the real world. Over the last few years, 2 therefore, scanners have become common in many different locations, including police stations, high-security buildings, and even computer keyboards. The price of a scanner has also decreased significantly. 3 Besides, it is now possible to purchase a USB fingerprint scanner for under $\$ 100$.
7. Executive editors play one of the most important roles at newspapers and magazines: they oversee assistant editors and generally have the final say about which stories are published. 1 Meanwhile, if a writer covering local news proposes a piece about the candidates in a city election, the executive editor decides whether to approve the article and determines what angle the writer should take. Executive editors also plan