## 1
A) NO CHANGE
B) however,
C) by the same token,
D) in effect,
A) NO CHANGE
B) Whereas computerized
C) Because computerized
D) Computerized

A) NO CHANGE
B) in other words,
C) however,
D) for example,
A) NO CHANGE
B) Next,
C) Indeed,
D) Likewise,
A) NO CHANGE
B) For instance,
C) Similarly,
D) Instead,

budgets and negotiate contracts with freelance writers, sometimes called "stringers." Although many executive editors work for newspaper publishers, some 2 are employed by television stations or advertising firms.
8. Straw has been used as a building material for centuries. Contrary to popular belief, it is not easily destroyed. 1 In fact, it can be quite hardy. In the nineteenth century, settlers in the Nebraska Sand Hills used straw to build houses when wood and clay were scarce; some of the structures are still standing today. Builders are hoping that such longevity is attributable to the straw, but new homes that use this material do have some updates. 2 However, these contemporary structures include straw that is pressed into panels and framed with timber for reinforcement. The panels are then covered in brick so that no straw remains exposed to the elements.
9. The Silk Road acquired its name from the lucrative trade in Chinese silk carried out along its 4,000 miles, beginning during the Han dynasty ( 206 BCE - 220 AD ). The Chinese took great interest in the safety of their goods. 1 Accordingly, they extended the Great Wall of China to ensure the protection of their trade routes.

Trade on the Silk Road was a significant factor in the development of China, India, and Europe, opening long-distance political and economic interactions.
2 Because silk was certainly the major trade item from China, numerous other types of goods, including textiles, cloth, and pottery, also traveled along the Silk Road.