## 2

A) NO CHANGE
B) Therefore,
C) However,
D) Consequently,

# Non-Essential \& Essential Clauses

To review, non-essential elements (words, phrases, and clauses) can be removed from a sentence without affecting its essential meaning or grammatical structure.

Non-essential clauses often begin with "w-words" such as which and who, but they can also begin with nouns (appositives) or participles (-ing, -ed).

Correct: The Tower of London, which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078, is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

The sentence contains a clause that is surrounded by commas and that begins with the word which. If we cross out that clause, the remaining sentence makes complete sense on its own:

Correct: The Tower of London... is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

If one or both of the commas are removed, however, the sentence is incorrect.
Incorrect: The Tower of London, which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078 is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

Incorrect: The Tower of London which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078, is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

Incorrect: The Tower of London which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078 is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

In order to fix the sentence, you must recognize that it will still make sense if the clause which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078 is removed. Commas must therefore be added around that clause.

Correct: The Tower of London, which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078, is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

Sometimes non-essential clauses can be very long. In such cases, you must make sure to look all the way back to the beginning of the sentence in order to identify the beginning of the non-essential clause. You should also be prepared to cross out a lot of information in order to determine whether a non-essential clause is present.

To reiterate: if a sentence still makes sense when a clause is crossed out, two commas must be placed around that clause.

On the SAT, any part of a non-essential clause can be tested. In some cases, only the beginning of the clause will be underlined, in which case you must read ahead to identify the end. In other cases, only the end of the clause will be underlined, in which case you must backtrack to the beginning. Either way, you must consider the sentence as a whole in order to determine how the clause should be punctuated.

For example:

The city of London, which was originally built by the Romans along the banks of the Thames more than two thousand years 1 ago contains a number of extremely modern neighborhoods.

If you focus only on the underlined portion of the sentence, you might sense that some sort of break is required between ago and contains, but you'll be working more on intuition than on grammatical understanding. The key is to go back to the beginning of the sentence and recognize that the word which signals the start of a non-essential clause. The only logical place for that clause to end is right before the verb contains.

Crossed out:

The city of London, which was originally built by the Romans along the banks of the Thames more than two thousand years 1 ago contains a number of extremely modern neighborhoods.

When the non-essential clause is eliminated, the sentence that remains makes sense (London...contains a number of extremely modern neighborhoods). It is thus necessary to insert a comma after ago, making D) correct.

Crossing out non-essential clauses can also help you identify fragments. When you are confronted with an exceptionally long statement, you can easily get lost and end up unable to determine whether it is a sentence.

For example:

The city of London, which was originally built by the Romans along the banks of the Thames more than two thousand years 1 ago and contains a number of extremely modern neighborhoods.

With the non-essential clause removed, it becomes much clearer that A), B), and C) will all produce fragments when plugged into the sentence. Only D) correctly places a verb immediately after the comma, supplying a main verb that corresponds to the subject and creating a coherent sentence.

# Two Commas vs. Semicolon/Period

Many of the transition words and phrases that are used to begin clauses can also be used non-essentially within clauses. Some common examples include however, therefore, in fact, indeed, for example, and moreover. (We actually saw some of these transitions used non-essentially in the previous chapter.)

As discussed earlier, these transitions should follow a period or semicolon when they are used to begin a sentence or clause. In the sentence below, for instance, the transition however is used to begin the second sentence/clause:

Correct: The Tower of London was built during the Norman Conquest. However, (or: Conquest; however,) nearly a thousand years later, it still remains standing.

That transition can also be used non-essentially in the middle of the sentence:
Correct: The Tower of London was built during the Norman Conquest. Nearly a thousand years later, however, it still remains standing.

The commas around however tell us that if we cross out that word, the sentence will still make sense. And sure enough, when we eliminate it, we are left with a grammatically acceptable sentence:

Correct: Nearly a thousand years later...it still remains standing.
What we cannot do is this:
Incorrect: The Tower of London was built during the Norman Conquest, however, nearly a thousand years later, it still remains standing.

In the above version of the sentence, the two commas imply that the word however can be removed without affecting the sentence's essential meaning. But if we remove those commas, we end up with two independent clauses placed back-to-back, without any punctuation between them.

Incorrect: The Tower of London was built during the Norman Conquest nearly a thousand years later, it still remains standing.

The need for two commas vs. a semicolon is determined solely by context. If you are unsure which type of punctuation should be used, cross out the word or phrase in question and read the sentence without it.

If the sentence makes sense, the word or phrase is being used non-essentially, and two commas must be used. If the sentence does not make sense or a comma splice is created, a semicolon or period is required.

In addition, other types of phrases that are usually placed at the beginning of a sentence may sometimes be used non-essentially in the middle of a sentence. While you may find this construction odd, it is acceptable as long as the sentence makes sense when the non-essential clause is removed.

Correct: Many scholars believe that the Tower of London retained its original form until the reign of Richard the Lionheart at the end of the twelfth century.

Correct: The Tower of London retained its original form, many scholars believe, until the reign of Richard the Lionheart at the end of the twelfth century.

# Important: two commas do not always equal a non-essential clause!

One common mistake is to assume that the presence of two commas in a sentence automatically signals a non-essential clause. That, however, is not necessarily the case. Compare the following two sentences:

Sentence 1: London, which was one of the largest and most important cities in Europe during the Middle Ages, remains an important financial and cultural center today.

This sentence contains a non-essential clause that can be removed without altering its basic meaning:
Correct: London, which was one of the largest and most important cities in Europe during the Middle Ages, remains an important financial and cultural center today.

Now take a look at this sentence:
Sentence 2: During the Middle Ages, London was one of the largest and most important cities in Europe, and today it remains an important financial and cultural center.

If we cross out the information between the commas, we get this:
Incorrect: During the Middle Ages, London was one of the largest and most important cities in Europe, and today it remains an important financial and cultural center.

The remaining sentence does not make sense, indicating that the information between the two commas does not constitute a non-essential clause.

In addition, some sentences that contain commas setting off non-essential clauses also contain commas that serve unrelated purposes. In such cases, you may need to read carefully in order to tell where non-essential clauses are actually located.

Correct: Sumo wrestling, a full-contact sport in which competitors attempt to force one another out of a circular ring, originated in Japan, which remains the only country in the world where the sport is practiced.

The above sentence contains only one non-essential clause that can be removed without creating a problem:
Correct: Sumo wrestling, a full-contact sport in which competitors attempt to force one another out of a circular ring, originated in Japan, which remains the only country in the world where the sport is practiced.

If the information between a different set of commas is removed, however, we are left with nonsense:
Incorrect: Sumo wrestling, a full-contact sport in which competitors attempt to force one another out of a circular ring, originated in Japan, which remains the only country in the world where the sport is practiced.

If you cannot hear where the non-essential clause belongs, take your pencil (not a pen!), draw a line through the section you want to test, and read the sentence without it. If that doesn't work, erase the line, cross out a different section, and try again. It is very important that you go through this process because it is the only means you have of figuring out the answer logically.

# Exercise: Identifying Non-Essential Words and Phrases (answers p. 242)

In the following sentences, place commas around non-essential phrases as necessary. If you are uncertain whether a section of the sentence is non-essential, cross it out and read the sentence without it. Note that some sentences contain additional, unrelated commas.

| 1. | The cesium fountain atomic clock the most precise form of timekeeper available is expected to <br> become inaccurate by less than a single second over the next 50 million years. |
| :-- | :-- |
| 2. | Frank Gehry's buildings critics agree are among the most important examples of contemporary <br> architecture found in the United States. |
| 3. | The most common types of coral which are usually found in clear, shallow waters require sunlight <br> in order to grow. |
| 4. | Used in some martial arts, the Red Belt one of several colored belts intended to denote a <br> practitioner's skill level and rank originated in Japan and Korea. |
| 5. | Testing animal cognition is tricky, and comparing and contrasting across species lines especially <br> when distinct species-specific tests are used is particularly challenging. |
| 6. | New Zealand one of the last lands to be settled by humans developed distinctive animal and plant <br> life during its long isolation. |
| 7. | Forensic biology the application of biology to law enforcement has been used to identify illegal <br> products from endangered species and investigate bird collisions with wind turbines. |
| 8. | Human computers who once performed basic numerical analysis for laboratories were behind the <br> calculations for everything from the first accurate prediction of the return of Halley's Comet to the <br> success of the Manhattan Project. |
| 9. | The wingspan of the monarch butterfly a species commonly mistaken for the similar-looking <br> viceroy butterfly ranges from 8.9 to 10.2 centimeters. |
| 10. | Some traditional assumptions about how to treat jellyfish stings have recently been called into <br> question: rinsing the affected areas with seawater for example only spreads the stings to a larger <br> area. |

11. The world's first copyright law which was established in Great Britain in 1709 was intended to protect books from illegal copying and distribution.
12. The unusually large size of the komodo dragon the largest species of lizard has been attributed to one of its ancient ancestors, the immense varanid lizard.
13. Judy Chicago's The Dinner Party was through an unprecedented worldwide grassroots movement exhibited to more than a million people in six countries on three continents.
14. According to the Motif-Index of Folk Literature a magisterial six-volume compilation of myths, legends and folktales collected by folklorists in the early twentieth century many cultures have told similar stories to explain the occurrence of solar eclipses.
15. A new software called DXplain some hospitals report is helping doctors make diagnoses and avoid the types of errors that can sometimes cause harm to patients.

# Non-Essential Clauses with Dashes and Parentheses

Many if not most of the non-essential clauses you are asked to work with on the SAT will be constructed using commas; however, these clauses can also be set off by dashes and parentheses.

Correct: The Tower of London - which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078 is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

Correct: The Tower of London (which was begun by William the Conqueror in 1078) is one of the largest and most imposing fortifications in England.

Why use dashes or parentheses? For stylistic reasons. In comparison to commas, dashes create a stronger break. Parentheses imply that information is less important than either commas or dashes do.

Despite these differences, two commas, two dashes, and two parentheses are all grammatically interchangeable. The only exception involves transition words and phrases (e.g., however, therefore, in fact), which must be surrounded by commas when they are used non-essentially. Otherwise, you will not be asked to choose among these types of punctuation when they are used correctly. You will, however, be asked to recognize when they are used incorrectly.

The most important thing to know is that either two commas, two dashes, or two parentheses should be used - you cannot mix and match. For instance a non-essential clause begun by a comma should not end with a dash or close-parenthesis, and a non-essential clause begun by an open-parenthesis should not end with a comma or dash.

For example:

The Norman 1 Conquest, an event that occurred in 1066 - marked an important step in the development of the English language.