## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) 1078 , to be exact,
C) 1078 to be exact),
D) 1078 to be exact -

The non-essential clause begins with a parenthesis, so it must end with one as well. That eliminates B) and D). A) does not fit either because a semicolon should not be placed before a FANBOYS conjunction (but).

A FANBOYS conjunction should, however, follow a comma that is used to separate two independent clauses. And if we cross out the parenthetical information, that is exactly what we get.

Correct: The Tower of London was constructed as a prison in the eleventh century (the year 1078 to be exact), but over the centuries it has been used as everything from an armory to a treasury.
C) is thus correct.

# Exercise: Non-Essential Clauses with Commas, Dashes, and Parentheses (answers p. 248)

1. It might seem that biometric authentication, like a fingerprint, would offer more security than a password. But it doesn't, because most systems that permit users to set up fingerprint access also require a PIN or a password as an alternate backup method. A user, 1 or a thief could skip the biometric method and instead just enter a PIN or a password.
2. With more than 300 gardens-some public, others I private, many secret, London is one of Europe's greenest capitals. Towering pink hollyhocks creep over a high brick wall off a busy street; red and green ivy bedecks apartment courtyards. Offices and museums set aside valuable real estate for patches of green with fruit trees and flowers.
3. In terms of biodiversity, Malaysia's Mount Kinabalu is one of the richest sites in the world. It is packed with various forms of life, some of which are extremely rare. In fact, certain 1 species such as the carnivorous pitcher plant are found nowhere else on earth. These plants use a variety of techniques (including nectar, smells, and bright 2 colors that lure insects, and their traps deploy sheer drops, smooth surfaces that cannot be scaled, or blockades of bristles that prevent prey from escaping.
A) NO CHANGE
B) or a thief could,
C) or a thief, could
D) or a thief-could
A) NO CHANGE
B) private, many secret-London
C) private, many secret London
D) private, many secret London,
A) NO CHANGE
B) species such as the carnivorous pitcher plant,
C) species-such as the carnivorous pitcher plant
D) species, such as the carnivorous pitcher plant
A) NO CHANGE
B) colors that lure insects), and
C) colors that lure insects-and
D) colors that lure insects and

4. With about $\$ 359$ billion spent on training globally in 2016 - more than $20 \%$ more than was spent just five years 1 earlier, businesses are investing more and more in improving their staffs' skills. One useful technique involves dividing training into short sessions. This approach is helpful for several reasons: it breaks up the information into less intimidating bursts, it gets employees back to their desks more quickly, and, most 2 importantly, it allows workers to implement the skills they've learned. Because workers have time to observe what works and what doesn't, they can come to the following sessions with helpful questions and comments.
5. Timothy O'Hara, deputy head of marine sciences at Museum Victoria in Australia, is leading an effort to develop a database of marine biodiversity worldwide. Because tackling every ocean species in existence is a monumental task, O'Hara and his team are focusing on the brittle 1 star, (a spindlier, more delicate cousin of the more famous sea star), and collecting historical records from 1,614 oceanic expeditions spanning the last century. As a result of changes in species names and 2 misidentifications; however, those records were initially filled with inaccuracies. So the scientists visited museums around the worldMoscow, Tokyo, Berlin, and Washington, D.C., as well as 3 other cities, to examine firsthand the species described in the records.