## 1
A) NO CHANGE
B) earlier businesses
C) earlier; businesses
D) earlier - businesses

A) NO CHANGE
B) most importantly - it allows
C) most importantly; it allows
D) most importantly it allows,

A) NO CHANGE
B) star (a spindlier, more delicate cousin of the more famous sea star)
C) star (a spindlier, more delicate cousin of the more famous sea star,
D) star, (a spindlier, more delicate cousin of the more famous sea star)

A) NO CHANGE
B) misidentifications however,
C) misidentifications, however,
D) misidentifications however

A) NO CHANGE
B) other cities
C) other cities -
D) other cities;

# Essential Clauses With and Without "That"

Clauses beginning with that are always essential to the meaning of a sentence and should not be set off by commas (or any other form of punctuation, for that matter). The use of a comma before or after that is virtually always incorrect.

Incorrect: Parrots are one of the most difficult pets, that a person can have because they are intelligent, demanding, and live for up to 50 years.

Incorrect: Parrots are one of the most difficult pets that, a person can have because they are intelligent, demanding, and live for up to 50 years.

Correct: Parrots are one of the most difficult pets that a person can have because they are intelligent, demanding, and live for up to 50 years.

In the above sentence, the word that is optional. The sentence can be correctly written both with and without it.

Correct: Parrots are one of the most difficult pets that a person can have because they are intelligent, demanding, and live for up to 50 years.

Correct: Parrots are one of the most difficult pets a person can have because they are intelligent, demanding, and live for up to 50 years.

If the word that is deleted, however, no comma should be used in its place. When that is optional and is not used, it is always incorrect to insert a comma in its place.

Incorrect: Parrots are one of the most difficult pets, a person can have because they are intelligent, demanding, and live for up to 50 years.

Note that on very rare occasions, a non-essential phrase may be placed after the word that. In such cases, it is acceptable for a comma to be placed after that, even if this construction does tend to be somewhat awkward.

Correct: Hundreds of seismic sensors have been placed around the Pacific Northwest in order to detect " $p$ " waves, the harmless, fast-moving signals that, as a general rule, precede the "s" waves responsible for violent shaking during earthquakes.

# Non-Essential vs. Essential Clauses: The Case of "Who"

Clauses beginning with who can be either non-essential (two commas) or essential (no commas). Both versions are grammatically acceptable, but they have somewhat different meanings. For example, it is possible to write the following sentence two different ways.

Version 1: People, who attend large open air events such as sporting matches and music festivals, often turn to camping as a cheap form of accommodation.

The commas in the above sentence imply that the clause between them is not central to the meaning of the sentence. The focus of the sentence is on people in general. The fact that they attend large open air events such as sporting matches and music festivals is secondary.

Version 2: People who attend large open air events such as sporting matches and music festivals often turn to camping as a cheap form of accommodation.

The lack of commas in the second version indicates that the sentence is not discussing people in general but rather a specific group of people: those who attend large open air events such as sporting matches and music festivals. While the first version of the sentence is grammatically correct, this version makes more sense. Clearly, not all people turn to camping as a cheap form of accommodation.

Grammatically, these sentences can be written either way without a problem; the focus of the sentence merely shifts depending on whether the commas are used. When a sentence that can be written either with or without commas is tested in the context of a paragraph, however, only one version will be correct.

For example, consider the following:

The store where I work has a return policy I have always found amusing. Normally, customers have one year from the purchase date to return unwanted or defective goods; however, I customers, who make purchases on February $29^{\text {th }}$, have four years to return their items. The store's owner reasons that customers should have the right to return an item until the next occurrence of the date on which they bought it. Since February $29^{\text {th }}$ occurs only once every four years, customers should thus be allowed nearly 1,500 days to decide whether they truly want a toaster or pair of shoes.