## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) customers, who make purchases on February $29^{\text {th }}$
C) customers who make purchases on February $29^{\text {th }}$,
D) customers who make purchases on February $29^{\text {th }}$

Solution: The commas around who make purchases on February $29^{\text {th }}$ imply that this information could be crossed out without affecting the meaning of the passage. In this case, however, the clause in question does provide crucial information: it specifies which particular customers the passage is focusing on, and the remainder of the paragraph discusses only these particular customers.

# Without the phrase, the passage would also contradict itself because the previous sentence states that customers normally have only one year to return unwanted items. The underlined portion introduces an exception to that rule, which is then discussed in the rest of the passage. So A) is incorrect.
B) is incorrect because the clause in question must either have two commas, indicating that it is nonessential, or no commas, indicating that it is essential. Only one comma is not an option.
C) is incorrect for the same reason as B), except that in this case the single comma is placed at the end of the clause rather than at the beginning. This answer is a little trickier because the complete subject, customers who make purchases on February 29th, is quite long, and it might seem that a pause is needed after it. In reality, however, a comma should not be placed between a subject and a verb, regardless of how long the subject may be.
D) is correct because the lack of commas indicates that the underlined information is essential to the meaning of the sentence. In addition, this answer does not separate the subject from the verb.

Let's look at another example:

The hexacopter, a lump of steel propellers and lenses, is both camera and flying machine. This contraption is revolutionizing the way news is reported. In the past, 1 journalists, who wanted to obtain aerial shots of events to accompany their stories, were forced to rely on conventional helicopters, which often flew too high to capture detailed images. The hexacopter, however, can catapult itself into the air and hover right above the scene the photographer wishes to record.