## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) journalists who wanted to obtain aerial shots to accompany their stories,
C) journalists, who wanted to obtain aerial shots to accompany their stories
D) journalists who wanted to obtain aerial shots to accompany their stories

Solution: B) and C) can be eliminated pretty quickly because our options are two commas or no commas. If we were to cross out the information between the commas, the sentence would still make perfect grammatical sense (In the past, journalists...were forced to rely on conventional helicopters).

The problem is that by definition, the commas imply that the information between them is not essential but here, the information is central to the meaning of the passage. Based on the context, it is clear that the sentence is not talking about journalists in general, as two commas would imply, but rather about a specific group of journalists: those who wanted to obtain aerial shots to accompany their stories. Because that information is necessary to define the type of journalists discussed in the passage, no commas should be used. D) is thus correct.

# It is also possible that you will encounter other types of clauses that can be either essential or nonessential. When this is the case, you may have to think very carefully about whether commas are required. Such questions are unlikely to appear often, but you should be prepared for the possibility of encountering them.

For example, consider the following:

In 2004, while rummaging in a Seattle basement, historian and journalist J. Pennelope Goforth came across a silver shopping bag with an envelope inside. I The envelope marked "Alaska Commercial Company" immediately caught her attention. Goforth had a longstanding interest in the company, which had controlled Alaska's waters in the nineteenth century.