## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) acquaintance Charles Babbage
C) acquaintance Charles Babbage,
D) acquaintance, Charles Babbage

Solution: Because the name Charles Babbage appears in the middle of a sentence, our options are two commas or no commas, eliminating C) and D). To decide between A) and B), we must cross out the name between the commas.

Ada Lovelace and her acquaintance were two of the most influential figures in the history of computer science.

Now we must consider the context. This sentence is grammatically acceptable, but a crucial piece of information is missing: we do not know who Lovelace's acquaintance was. As a result, the reference to Babbage in the following sentence does not make sense. That means the name is essential, and no commas are required. The answer is therefore B).

Another way to think of this rule is as follows:

- Commas around a name or title imply that it is the only person or thing.
- No commas around a name or title imply that it is one of many people or things.

Commas around Charles Babbage would imply that Babbage was Ada Lovelace's only acquaintance. That's theoretically possible, but it's not very logical. Without the commas, the sentence implies that Ada Lovelace had multiple acquaintances, one of whom was Babbage. That interpretation just makes more sense.

Let's look at another example:

Caribbean-American I author, Jamaica Kincaid is also known for being an enthusiastic essayist and gardener. She was born Elaine Potter Richardson in St. John's, Antigua, but came to the United States at the age of 17 to work as an au pair in Westchester County, New York. She eventually won a scholarship to Franconia College in New Hampshire but returned to New York City to write. In 1985, she published the novel Annie John, a semiautobiographical story of a young girl growing up in Antigua.