## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) the novel Annie John,
C) the novel, Annie John
D) the novel Annie John

Solution: As always, we're going to start by crossing out the title and reading the sentence without it.
In 1985, she published the novel...a semiautobiographical story of a young girl growing up in Antigua.

No, this statement does not make sense in context because we do not know which novel the sentence is referring to. The information is therefore essential. In most cases, that would indicate that commas should not be placed around the title.

But wait, there's a twist! This is the rare exception to the "two commas or no commas" rule. A comma is required to separate the independent first clause from the dependent second clause (In 1985, she published the novel Annie John, a semiautobiographical story of a young girl growing up in Antigua). Without the comma, we just get a big jumble. So the answer is B).

# Exercise: Non-Essential vs. Essential Clauses (answers p. 249)

The following questions test your understanding of commas and essential/non-essential clauses. If you are uncertain whether a clause is essential or non-essential, follow these steps:

1) Cross out the phrase, name, or title.
2) Determine whether the sentence makes sense in context without it.
3) Determine whether commas are necessary.
4. Along with her I husband Martin Luther King, Coretta Scott King played an important role in the Civil Rights Movement. She was most active after 1968, when she took on the leadership of the struggle for equality and became a key figure in the women's movement.
5. Some animal trainers claim that most obedience programs consist of no more than teaching a dog tricks. A I dog, that has undergone obedience training, may understand commands such as "sit," "down," and "heel" but may still engage in destructive and aggressive behaviors such as chewing shoes or digging up flowers.
6. Lisa See, author of the I best-selling novel, Snow Flower and the Secret Fan, has always been intrigued by stories that have been lost, forgotten, or deliberately covered up. To research the book, See traveled to a remote area of China 2 that, she was told, only one foreigner before her had ever visited. While there, See was able to investigate a secret type of writing that women had kept hidden for over a thousand years.

A) NO CHANGE
B) husband Martin Luther King;
C) husband, Martin Luther King,
D) husband, Martin Luther King
$\square$
A) NO CHANGE
B) dog that has undergone obedience training
C) dog that, has undergone obedience training
D) dog, that has undergone obedience training
$\square$
A) NO CHANGE
B) best-selling novel Snow Flower and the Secret Fan
C) best-selling novel, Snow Flower and the Secret Fan
D) best-selling novel Snow Flower and the Secret Fan,
$\square$
A) NO CHANGE
B) that she was told,
C) that, she was told
D) that; she was told

4. Alfred Mosher Butts, the American I architect, who created Scrabble ${ }^{\text {TM }}$, intended it to be a variation on the existing word game Lexiko. The two games had the same set of letter tiles and point values, which Butts had worked out by analyzing the frequency with which letters appeared in newspapers and magazines. He decided the new game should be called "Criss-Crosswords" and added the $15 \times 15$ game board. Butts created a few sets 2 himself, but the first manufacturers who inspected them, did not think that the game was likely to become very popular.
5. In November 1895, German I physicist Wilhelm Roentgen accidentally discovered an image created by rays emanating from a vacuum tube. Further investigation showed that the rays penetrated many kinds of matter. A week after his discovery, Roentgen photographed the hand of his 2 wife, Anna, clearly revealing her wedding ring and bones. The image, which electrified the general 3 public aroused great scientific interest in the new form of radiation.