## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) It's
C) Its
D) They're

When a lot of people look at a question like this, they immediately notice that their is possessive and doesn't fit in context. Happy to have identified the error, they leap to pick D). Unfortunately, it's not the answer.

When we look at the various options, we can see that they contain both singular (it) and plural (they) options. As a result, we must determine which noun the underlined pronoun is intended to refer to, and whether that noun is singular or plural. For the moment, we're going to forget the possessive issue.

The underlined pronoun appears at the start of the sentence, and antecedents typically come before pronouns (ante- = before). It is therefore necessary to look at the previous sentence: The cacao bean is the dried and fully fermented fatty bean of the cacao tree (Theobroma cacao).

Now we're going to think through the problem step by step:

- Logically, what is the source of cocoa butter and solids? The cacao bean.
- Is the cacao bean singular or plural? Singular. We know because there is no $-s$ on the end of bean.
- Is they singular or plural? Plural.

So we have a mismatch. The pronoun it must be used to refer to a singular noun. Its is possessive, but it's means it is, which makes sense in context. The answer is therefore B). They're vs. their was only a distraction. Note that it does not matter that they could logically refer to the plural noun cacao beans. Only the singular noun cacao bean is present, and a pronoun must refer to a word that actually appears.

Pronouns can refer to either people or things. Some pronouns can refer only to people (e.g., he, she); some can refer only to things (e.g., it); and some can refer to both (e.g., they).

# A. Things

The vast majority of SAT pronoun agreement questions test things.
The pronouns it/its and they/their are used to refer to singular and plural things, e.g., cities, books, paintings. (Note that the plural of it is either they or them, not its.)

| Singular | Plural |
| :--: | :--: |
| It | They/Them |
| Its | Their |

A singular noun must be replaced with a singular pronoun.
Incorrect: While the tomato is botanically a fruit, they are considered a vegetable for culinary purposes.

Correct: While the tomato is botanically a fruit, it is considered a vegetable for culinary purposes.

Likewise, a plural noun must be replaced with a plural pronoun.
Incorrect: While tomatoes are botanically fruits, it is considered a vegetable for culinary purposes.

Correct: While tomatoes are botanically fruits, they are considered vegetables for culinary purposes.

An antecedent may appear in the same sentence in which an underlined pronoun appears, but it may also appear in the previous sentence (as in the examples above) or, on rare occasions, in the following sentence.

To reiterate: When you encounter a set of answer choices that includes both singular and plural pronouns, you should always take a moment to figure out which noun the pronoun refers to. Otherwise, you are very likely to be confused by choices that are grammatically correct but that create disagreements when plugged back into the passage.

# B. People

| Singular | Plural |
| :--: | :--: |
| A Person | He or She, His or Her |
| People | They |

Errors involving people are typically easier to catch than ones involving things for the simple reason that it is generally quite clear whether a passage is discussing one person or multiple people.

For example:

Mae Jemison became the first African-American woman to travel into space when she went into orbit aboard the Space Shuttle Endeavour on September 12, 1992. After 1 one's medical education and a brief general practice, Jemison served in the Peace Corps for two years.

Because the underlined pronoun must logically refer to Mae Jemison, who is clearly female (the first AfricanAmerican woman), her is the sole possibility. The answer is therefore B).

When it is unclear whether a singular noun (e.g., a researcher, a scientist, an architect) refers to a male or a female, the phrase he or she (or his or her) should be used.

For example:

When an artist works with oil paints, 1 they should allow at least a week for paintings to dry. During that time, paintings should be stored in a safe, dry place, away from objects that could brush against them and smear the paint. Drying times vary from a few days to several months. Some types of oil paintings take up to a year to "cure" before they can be varnished.

Because an artist is singular, the phrase he or she is required. C) is thus correct.
Note: each and every are singular (short for each/every one) and take the singular pronouns it and he or she.
Incorrect: Each of the researchers will present their work at the conference.
Correct: Each of the researchers will present his or her work at the conference.

# C. One vs. You

You $=$ You
One $=$ One
While both one and you can be used to talk about people in general, the two pronouns cannot be mixed and matched within a sentence or paragraph but must remain consistent throughout. In addition, they should not be matched with any other pronoun.

Remember that context is important. While all four of the answers to a given question may be grammatically correct and make sense out of context, only one will make the sentence parallel to the surrounding sentences.

If you have been reading the passage carefully and not just skipping from question to question, you will likely remember which pronoun was used in the previous couple of sentences. If you are unsure, however, you must go back to the passage and read the surrounding sentences to see which pronoun is used.

For example:

If you want to protect your home from insect invasions, you should avoid leaving crumbs lying on the floor. You should also avoid leaving dirty dishes in the sink because ants and mice are attracted to leftovers. Finally, I one should make sure that cracks in the floor and walls are sealed because pests can often enter homes by wriggling through tiny spaces.