## 3

A) NO CHANGE
B) built, it is dwarfed
C) built, but it is dwarfed
D) built it is dwarfed,

6. Optical illusions reveal the human mind's tendency to make assumptions about the world - and what we believe 1 ones sees is often not the truth. For thousands of years, curious minds have questioned why our eyes are so easily fooled by simple drawings. Illusions, 2 scientists have found, can reveal everything from how we process time and space to how we experience consciousness. For example, if a person watching a waterfall shifts his or her gaze to a group of rocks on the side, the rocks appear to move in the opposite direction from the flow of water. 3 However, this effect is known as the waterfall illusion. Tracking the flow of the water seems to "tire" some of the brain's neurons. When the person's gaze moves to the rocks, other neurons 4 overcompensate. They cause the illusion of movement in the other direction.
7. It seems strange that water is such a scarce resource when the Earth is covered in more than 300 million trillion gallons of 1 them. From oceans to lakes to rivers, water is seemingly everywhere. Unfortunately, though, only about one-half of one percent of water is drinkable. $98 \%$ of the remaining water is salt water, and $1.5 \%$ remains locked up in icecaps and glaciers. As advancing technology continues to reduce costs and freshwater continues to grow scarcer and more
2 expensive; more cities are looking to seawater conversion as a way to meet the need for drinking water.