## 1
A) NO CHANGE
B) you see
C) he or she sees
D) we are seeing

A) NO CHANGE
B) scientists have found -
C) scientists have found;
D) scientists have found,

A) NO CHANGE
B) For example, this effect
C) Therefore, this experience is known as
D) This effect is known as

What is the most effective way of combining the sentences at the underlined portion?
A) overcompensate, this causes
B) overcompensate and causing
C) overcompensate by causing
D) overcompensate, but they cause

A) NO CHANGE
B) that.
C) these things.
D) it.

A) NO CHANGE
B) expensive. More cities
C) expensive, but more cities
D) expensive, more cities

8. When I used to think of the Middle Ages, I would

1 imagine knights, lords and ladies, jousting competitions, and bloody battles, all taking place in or around a castle. I always assumed that castles were nothing more than large 2 dwellings, that provided a scenic background, for the real action. Then, however, I spent a summer researching castles for a local historical society and discovered that these structures had many important functions.

As I learned, medieval castles served a primarily military purpose - 3 that is, they housed armies and acted as garrisons that controlled a particular territory. Furthermore, castles were key staging points for
4 conquests, and defenses of territories. Many castles, particularly those that were part of fortified towns, sheltered the surrounding villagers in times of war and siege.

The designs and constructions of these castles varied greatly. 5 Because some were unquestionably architectural masterpieces, others could only be described as crude and utilitarian. It was not until the end of the Middle Ages that castles lost their military function, either becoming homes for the nobility or being abandoned altogether.