## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) will give
C) would have given
D) had given

The presence of the phrase by the time indicates that the past perfect is required. You can also think of it this way: logically, Martha Graham must have given hundreds of performances (action \#1) before she retired (action \#2). D) is thus correct.

# Past Forms: Irregular Verbs

- Irregular past participles often end in -en, -own, -ung, or -unk.
- Irregular simple past forms often end in -ew, -ang, or -ank.

| Infinitive | Simple Past | Past Participle |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| To (a)rise | (A)rose | (A)risen |
| To (a)waken | (A)woke | (A)woken |
| To be | Was | Been |
| To become | Became | Become |
| To begin | Began | Begun |
| To blow | Blew | Blown |
| To break | Broke | Broken |
| To choose | Chose | Chosen |
| To do | Did | Done |
| To draw | Drew | Drawn |
| To drink | Drank | Drunk |
| To drive | Drove | Driven |
| To fly | Flew | Flown |
| To freeze | Froze | Frozen |
| To get | Got | Gotten* |
| To go | Went | Gone |
| To hide | Hid | Hidden |
| To give | Gave | Given |
| To grow | Grew | Grown |
| To know | Knew | Known |
| To ride | Rode | Ridden |
| To ring | Rang | Rung |
| To run | Ran | Run |
| To see | Saw | Seen |
| To sew | Sewed | Sewn |
| To shrink | Shrank | Shrunk(en) |
| To sing | Sang | Sung |
| To sink | Sank | Sunk(en) |
| To speak | Spoke | Spoken |
| To spring | Sprang | Sprung |
| To steal | Stole | Stolen |
| To stink | Stank | Stunk |
| To swim | Swam | Swum |
| To take | Took | Taken |
| To tear | Tore | Torn |
| To throw | Threw | Thrown |
| To wear | Wore | Worn |
| To write | Wrote | Written |

[^0]
[^0]:    *Although got is used as the past participle of get in British English, gotten is standard in American English.

# E. Would vs. Will

Future $=$ will + verb
The future is used to describe actions that have not yet occurred.
Correct: Martha Graham's works will continue to be performed for many years.
Conditional $=$ would + verb
Would is used to describe hypothetical situations: ones that could occur but have not actually occurred.
Correct: $\quad$ Many people who think of the tomato as a vegetable would be surprised to learn that it is actually a fruit.

Would + verb can also refer to a recurring action in the past.
Correct: Every summer until I went away to college, I would visit my grandparents in Peru.
Finally, would can be used to refer to an action that, from the perspective of the past, has not yet occurred even if, from today's perspective, that action occurred long ago.

Shortcut: would, not will, should generally be used in sentences that include a date in the past.
For example:

When Martha Graham began dancing in the early twentieth century, no one knew that she I will become one of the greatest choreographers of all time. Born in Pennsylvania in 1894, Graham was 14 when her family moved to California. After seeing the acclaimed dancer Ruth St. Denis perform, she proclaimed that her future profession was "chosen" for her.