## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) would become
C) would have become
D) becomes

Because the sentence clearly describes events in the past, would, not will, should be used. B) is thus correct.

# F. Would Have vs. Will Have

Answers with would have and will have are usually incorrect, but you should have a basic understanding of how these tenses are used.

Past conditional $=$ would have + verb
Would have is used to describe an action that could have happened, but that did not actually occur.
The most important thing to know about this tense is that would have + past participle should not appear in a clause begun by if, although this construction can appear in the same sentence.

Incorrect: If the Washington Monument would have been constructed as originally designed, the National Mall would have been anchored by a pantheon of 30 columns.

Correct: If the Washington Monument had been constructed as originally designed, the National Mall would have been anchored by a pantheon of 30 columns.

Future perfect $=$ will have + verb
Will have is used to describe a future action that will be finished before a second action occurs.
As is true for the past perfect, this tense is often associated with the phrase by the time.
Correct: By the time construction on the GIFT Diamond Tower is complete, workers will have spent more than three years assembling the 87 -story building.

# Exercise: Subject-Verb Agreement and Tense (answers p. 260)

1. Each July, one of the world's largest folk-art festivals 1 bring together artists from every corner of the globe for a vast and colorful international bazaar. For several weeks, more than 200 artists from 60 countries gather to offer handmade masterworks. The festival is located in Santa Fe, a destination rich in culture and history. The work of master artists 2 lines the walls as market-goers are given the opportunity to find one-of-akind treasures and meet their creators.
2. Kite-flying has a long history in Japan: according to legend, the first kites 1 were flying nearly 1,400 years ago. Since that time, kite-flying 2 had remained a delightful tradition. Kites are made from a bamboo framework and layers of washi paper-paper made by hand in the traditional style. Colorful narrative illustrations and legendary heroes from Japanese folklore 3 decorates their surfaces. Every region of the country has its own distinct kite design, with more than 130 varieties in all. For this reason, there is no single design that 4 are typical of Japanese kites.

A) NO CHANGE
B) bringing
C) brought
D) brings

A) NO CHANGE
B) have lined
C) lining
D) line

A) NO CHANGE
B) flown
C) were flown
D) had flew

A) NO CHANGE
B) would have remained
C) will remain
D) has remained

A) NO CHANGE
B) decorate
C) decorating
D) has decorated

A) NO CHANGE
B) will be
C) is
D) had been

3. In a village at the edge of the rainforest, the skilled and nimble fingers of an old woman 1 bends fabric and straw into graceful baskets. The baskets are the perfect size to hold papayas, but 2 they also held centuries of craft and tribal identity. Basket weaving is one of the most widespread crafts in history: it originated in the Middle East around 7,000 years ago and spread to every continent except Antarctica. The preservation of ancient baskets 3 is difficult, however, because most items are made of natural materials like wood, grass, and vines, which decay rapidly. As a result, much of the history of basket making 4 would be lost. On the other hand, weaving techniques, which are often passed along from generation to generation, 5 has been preserved throughout the centuries and are still being expanded upon today.