## 1

A) NO CHANGE
B) than Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.
C) than the expedition led by Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.
D) as the expedition led by Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.

A) NO CHANGE
B) and spending
C) and they spent
D) but they also spent

A) NO CHANGE
B) than
C) as
D) from

A) NO CHANGE
B) as appearing
C) than appear
D) than would appear

3. Julia Child might have been one of the more prominent American chefs of the twentieth century, but 1 her reliance on recipes was greater than almost any other cook of her caliber. Child was famous for the exceptional amount of detail she put into her recipes as she perfected them for publication. For example, her recipe for white sandwich bread was one of her simplest recipes, but she revised it repeatedly throughout her long career; neither her friends 2 or her fellow cooks could persuade her to be satisfied. The recipe was first published in Mastering the Art of French Cooking, but that was just the beginning. Not only did Child re-publish a slightly different version less than a decade later 3 and in 2000 it also appeared in one of her last books, Julia's Kitchen Wisdom.
4. When steel magnate Andrew Carnegie purchased the land for his New York City house in 1898, he purposely bought property as far north 1 as possible. The relatively spacious grounds were large enough for a terrace as well as a private garden - one of the few in Manhattan. Completed in 1901, the house had features more modern 2 than any other house in New York City. It was also the first private residence in the United States to be built on a steel frame, and one of the first in New York to have a passenger elevator. Furthermore, the house contained not only a central heating system 3 plus an early form of air conditioning. In the basement, a miniature railroad car transported coal to an immense pair of boilers.