## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) Changing wind circulation, runoff from sewage, and accumulating chemical fertilizers
C) Changing wind circulation, having runoff from sewage, and to accumulate chemical fertilizers
D) Changes in wind circulation patterns, runoff from sewage, and accumulation of chemical fertilizers

Once again, D) is the only option to contain three nouns. The other answers contain various combinations of nouns, verbs, and gerunds (-ing words).

Another type of parallel structure question involves only two items joined by a conjunction (and, or, but). Although these questions are fairly straightforward, you must take the entire sentence into account because the answer is likely to depend on information in the non-underlined portion of the sentence.

For example:

Because they have a highly developed sense of vision, most lizards are able to use clear body language and I changing their colors in order to communicate.

I
A) NO CHANGE
B) they change
C) will change
D) change

The word and connects the underlined item to the non-underlined item, so the two items must match. Note that the repetition of the word to is optional. The correct answer could read either to change or change, as is the case here. D) is thus correct.

Some two-item parallel structure questions may also ask you to work with phrases rather than single words. Consider the following sentence:

Incorrect: The time devoted to books by publishing companies has been reduced by financial constraints and the emphasis on marketing considerations has increased.

We know that the constructions on either side of the word and must match. So that means we must look at the specific construction of those two pieces of information.

What has the time devoted to books by publishing companies been reduced by?

1) financial constraints
2) the emphasis on marketing considerations has increased

When we examine the two sides, we see that their constructions do not match.

- The first side contains a noun.
- The second side contains an entire independent clause. Furthermore, both items must be able to follow the phrase reduced by, and it makes absolutely no sense to say, The time devoted to books by publishing companies has been reduced by the emphasis on marketing considerations has increased.

To make the two sides parallel, we must eliminate the independent clause and replace it with a noun phrase.
Correct: The time devoted to books by publishing companies has been reduced by both financial constraints and an increased emphasis on marketing considerations.

Because it is correct to say, The time devoted to books by publishing companies has been reduced by...an increased emphasis on marketing considerations, this version is right.

# Important: Two-part parallel structure questions may also double as word-pair questions. If you can spot the word pair, you can most likely eliminate several answers immediately.

For example:

As one of the greatest American dancers and choreographers of the twentieth century, Martha Graham was praised not only for the brilliance of her technique
1 and in the vividness and intensity of her movements.