## J

A) NO CHANGE
B) Josephine Baker's career was mostly spent performing throughout Europe.
C) Josephine Baker spent the majority of her career performing throughout Europe.
D) throughout Europe was where Josephine Baker spent the majority of her career performing.
A) and D) can be eliminated immediately because Josephine Baker's name does not appear immediately after the comma. Careful with B). Josephine Baker is not the subject, but rather Josephine Baker's career. That leaves C) as the only possible answer.

# Misplaced Modifiers

Misplaced modifiers can occur anywhere in a sentence. They also involve modifiers separated from the words/phrases they are intended to modify, and they often result in unintentionally ridiculous statements.

Incorrect: An allergic reaction is usually characterized by symptoms that appear at most two hours after a person has consumed a particular food such as itching or swelling.

Understood literally, this sentence indicates that itching and swelling are particular types of food. Clearly, however, they are symptoms of an allergic reaction. To correct the sentence, we must make that fact clear. Any rearrangement of the sentence that accomplishes this goal is acceptable.

Correct: An allergic reaction is usually characterized by symptoms such as itching and swelling that appear at most two hours after a person has consumed a particular food.

Correct: An allergic reaction usually begins at most two hours after a person has consumed a particular food and is characterized by itching and swelling.

Important: Which must refer to the noun that comes before it. If it does not, a misplaced modifier is created. For example, the first version of the sentence below implies that the contemporary environmental movement caused the decline in bird populations, when pesticides were clearly the culprit.

Incorrect: Marine biologist Rachel Carson's 1962 book Silent Spring revealed the dangers of pesticides and initiated the contemporary environmental movement, which had caused a sharp decline in bird populations.

Correct: The contemporary environmental movement was initiated when marine biologist Rachel Carson's 1962 book Silent Spring revealed the dangers of pesticides, which had caused a sharp decline in bird populations.

Now let's look at a test-style example:

Pigeons have long played an important role as messengers, as a result of their homing ability, speed, and altitude. I During the Franco-Prussian War in 1871, the French military used pigeons to transport messages to Paris, a time when the city was surrounded by Prussian troops.