## I

A) NO CHANGE
B) (at the time, the city was surrounded by Prussian troops).
C) (that time being one when the city was surrounded by Prussian troops).
D) (the city was surrounded by Prussian troops at the time).

The biggest trap you could fall into here is to focus on the answer choices alone, without considering the information that comes before the parentheses. You could eliminate C) based on the gerund being, but after that you might run into trouble. On their own, all of the answers are grammatically acceptable. You might try applying the "shorter is better" rule - in which case the answer would seem to be B) - but that would not get you to the right answer here.

In reality, the key to answering this question is to look at the noun that comes right before the openparenthesis: in this case, Paris. Paris is a city, so the parenthetical information must begin by referring to that fact. D) is the only option that begins with the city, so it is the only possible answer.

# Exercise: Dangling and Misplaced Modifiers (answers p. 266)

1. Born in Italy in 1853, Maria Spelterini emigrated to the United States as a young woman and quickly became known for her breathtaking stunts. In 1876, the 23 -year-old Spelterini became the only woman ever to cross the Niagara Gorge 1 over a period of 18 days on a tightrope. On July $12^{\text {th }}$, she made her first attempt while wearing peach baskets strapped to her feet. Balancing on a two-and-a-quarter inch wire, 2 she crossed the Falls just north of the lower suspension bridge. According to spectators, she appeared to exert no more effort than she would have during a stroll in the park. On July $19^{\text {th }}$,
3 the second crossing occurred while blindfolded; three days later, she crossed with her ankles and wrists bound. On July $26^{\text {th }}$, she crossed for the fourth and last time. 4 Never again performing at Niagara, the story of her life remains a mystery.