## 17

Which choice offers an accurate interpretation of data presented in the chart?
A) NO CHANGE
B) just as long to install a traditional home as
C) slightly less time to install a traditional home than
D) significantly longer to install a traditional home than

[1] Modules are usually constructed on an indoor assembly line. [2] During the first stage, the walls are attached to the floor. [3] As a finishing touch, shingles and siding are added. [4] Construction of the modules can take as little as 10 days, but more often several months are needed. [5]After the walls are firmly in place, drywall ceiling is sprayed on in a booth, and the roof is attached. [6] 18 During the whole process, building inspectors are required to supervise the construction and ensure that the company adheres to all building codes throughout the entire process. 19

When the modules are complete, they are transported to the building site. 20 Using a crane, they are set onto the building's foundation by workers where they are joined together. The process can take anywhere from several hours to several days. Workers can place the modules side-by-side or 21 being stacked high like blocks, allowing for a wide variety of configurations and styles in the building layout. The interior finishing process takes just 22 three weeks - a small fraction of the time necessary to finish the interior of a traditional building. After the finishing process is complete, the module is finally ready for its first tenants to move in.