## 27

Which choice provides the most effective transition to the information that follows?
A) NO CHANGE
B) but I never received a response.
C) but no one offered me a contract.
D) whose names I had found on the Internet.

Using a website that connected freelance workers with individuals and companies seeking help with short-term 28 projects, and I found an editor as well as a cover artist. Although they lived thousands of miles from my home, we were able to communicate directly using video software. They helped me transform my draft into something much more polished and professional. 29 My final manuscript was almost 300 pages long. I simply entered the title and author information, uploaded my manuscript and cover, and created an e-book. I even received a free ISBN number, the identification number that must appear on the cover of every book.

A) NO CHANGE
B) projects and found
C) projects; I found
D) projects, I found

Which choice most effectively sets up the information that follows while reinforcing a main theme of the essay?
A) NO CHANGE
B) In the end, I met three or four times with each of them.
C) I couldn't believe how easy the actual publishing process was.
D) I found them pleasant and easy to work with.

At first, I wasn't sure how I 30 should precede. Then, while doing some research, I stumbled 31 to the world of self-publishing. Originally used by aspiring authors who wanted to print a handful of books for friends and family, the self-publishing industry now allows thousands of writers to distribute their work both electronically and in paper form to readers all over the world. I found a service that seemed to fit my needs and eagerly created an account. 32 One of the most successful self-published books is Choose Yourself by James Altucher, which sold over 40,000 copies in a month.

While my book didn't immediately shoot to the top of the best-seller list, I am happy to report that it has been downloaded several hundred times. I've even gotten a couple of fan letters: one from North Carolina, and the other all the way from England! Now, I'm hard at work on my second book. I just need to think of a title. 33