## 40

Which choice gives a second supporting example that is most similar to the example already in the sentence?
A) A swimmer could become a fish darting through the water.
B) Someone concerned about meeting an important deadline might be running after a train that's pulling away.
C) Violin players must develop impressive coordination in order to manipulate a bow and strings.
D) A scientist might come up with a novel theory during the night.

Some researchers also believe that dreams help the brain sort through the millions of pieces of information it encounters each day, allowing it to decide what to retain and 41 what should be forgotten by it. Some of this information consists of simple sensory details, such as the color of a shirt, while other information, such as a presentation for history class, is far more complex. During REM sleep, when most dreaming occurs, 42 brain activity spikes sharply, rising almost to waking levels. The more learning occurs during waking hours, the more active the brain becomes during REM sleep. One recent study compared the dream activity of a group studying a foreign language to a group not studying a foreign language. The foreign language group showed a spike in brain activity during REM 43 sleep; suggesting that dreaming helped the students assimilate and retain new concepts.

A) NO CHANGE
B) what it should forget.
C) what is being forgotten.
D) what to forget.

Which choice offers an accurate interpretation of data presented in the chart?
A) NO CHANGE
B) spikes sharply but is still far below
C) increases slightly, rising to almost
D) decreases dramatically, falling to below

A) NO CHANGE
B) sleep and suggesting
C) sleep, this suggests
D) sleep, suggesting that

It is also possible that dreams don't serve any function at all - 44 of course, they're the result of random neurons firing in a way that doesn't occur when people are awake. According to this view, dreams are essentially a byproduct of the brain winding down for the night.