## Adding, Deleting, and Revising, p. 25

1.1 D: The word while indicates that the second half of the sentence must present an idea that contrasts with the idea in the first half. The passage states that daytime game shows were played for lower stakes, so the underlined portion must logically indicate that evening game shows were played for higher stakes. D) is an exact fit.
1.2 A: What is the focus of the end of the passage? The decline of game shows. What is the sentence in question about? The fact that most higherstakes game shows were cancelled. Is that consistent with the passage? Yes. C) and D) can therefore be eliminated. Why is the sentence relevant? Because it indicates what happened (i.e., a consequence) when the game shows were discovered to be rigged.
2.1 A: To answer this question, you must ignore the underlined sentence and focus on the rest of the passage-you cannot know what the topic sentence should say unless you know what the passage is about. What is the focus of the passage? Basically, how air traffic controllers keep planes safe (monitoring the distance between aircrafts, keeping tabs on weather, etc.). Choice A) is perfectly consistent with that idea. Although the other choices mention air traffic controllers, the rest of the passage has nothing to do with their lack of supervision, visual memories, or job titles.
2.2. C: Think about this question logically. "Wind shear" is a technical term, one that most people probably don't know the meaning of. As a result, deleting it would deprive readers of important information. That makes the answer C).
3.1 A: The phrasing of the question provides an important clue by telling you to focus on "the information that follows." In fact, the key phrase appears in the following sentence: he became even more dedicated to wilderness conservation. As a result, the underlined portion must introduce the idea that Roosevelt was dedicated to wilderness conservation, i.e., that the natural world deserved protection.
3.2 C: Even if the original version does seem to make sense, don't be fooled by it-the correct answer must "support the idea that Theodore Roosevelt was committed to protecting nature." The fact that Roosevelt and Muir slept out under the stars supports the idea that Roosevelt loved nature, but not that he was committed to protecting it. The statement that he passed legislation to preserve the natural world provides much more direct support for that idea, making the answer C). B) and D) are entirely off-topic.

4.1 C : Even though this question is phrased in terms of deleting, it's really asking you to determine whether the underlined section is relevant. What information does that section provide? It describes who Ernest Everett Just was and what he did. Is that relevant? Yes, because without that context, the rest of the passage does not really make sense. That makes the answer C).
4.2 B: The key phrase is "positive impact of Manning's biography on Just's legacy," so the correct answer must indicate how the book helped more people learn about Just's work. A) focuses on Manning rather than Just, and C) and D) do not mention Just at all. B) is correct because it indicates that Just's work received more attention after Manning's biography appeared.
5.1 B: Because the sentence in question is the topic sentence, you must read the rest of the paragraph to determine the topic. What does the paragraph discuss? The narrator's newfound love of paper. Consequently, the correct answer must introduce that idea. Only B) fits. A) and D) are entirely off-topic since neither focuses on the narrator. C) focuses on the narrator but does not mention paper, so it is off-topic as well.
5.2 A: What is the topic of the passage? The narrator's overwhelming fascination with paper. What is the purpose of the sentence to be added? In context of the previous sentence, it emphasizes the sheer amount of paper hanging on the narrator's walls. So yes, the sentence plays a logical role in the passage and should be added. To decide between A) and B), you must recognize that the sentence is not intended to be understood literally. The narrator was probably not truly afraid the walls would collapse; rather the sentence serves to emphasize the idea of his/her newfound obsession in a deliberately exaggerated way.
5.3 C: What is the focus of the passage? The narrator's love of paper. What is the focus of the underlined portion? The history of scrapbooking. Does it fit? No. Why? Because it's off-topic, i.e., it blurs the paragraph's focus.
6.1 C: To answer this question, you must start by reading the rest of the paragraph because the purpose of a concluding sentence is to summarize or comment on the preceding information. What is the focus of the paragraph? The physical movements (baring teeth, closing mouths, narrowing eyes), i.e., the specialized postures, that wolves use to communicate. That corresponds directly to C).
7.1 D: The presence of the word but indicates that the underlined portion must stand in contrast to the idea that Pulitzer loved politics. C) is consistent with that idea and can be eliminated immediately. To decide among A), B), and D), you must read the information that follows. The paragraph focuses on Pulitzer's newspaper career, and so the correct answer must be related to that focus. D) is correct because it mentions journalism; the other answers are off-topic.
7.2 A: The correct answer must provide an example of an "illegal activity"; only insurance fraud is consistent with that idea.
8.1 C: What is the focus of the beginning of the passage? Megacities. So the correct answer must emphasize the enormity of Tokyo-Yokohama. C) is correct because it provides statistics (two cities, 5,200 square miles) that reinforce the idea of immense size.
8.2 B: Because this question asks you to work with a topic sentence, you must start by reading the rest of the paragraph and determining its focus. What is the paragraph about? The fact that cities offer people unique ways to study, work, and experience culture. That corresponds directly to B).