## Sentence Order, p. 37

1. D: The key word in sentence 6 is hall. Logically, the statement If a hall cannot be found indicates that sentence 6 belongs after a sentence describing what a potential unicycle rider can do in a hall. If you scan the paragraph, you'll find that sentence 3 mentions a narrow hallway. Sentence 6 should thus be placed afterward, making D) correct.

2. C: The key phrase in sentence 4 is very large. Logically, this sentence belongs in a section describing the large size of solar-powered buildings. That topic is discussed only at the end of the paragraph, eliminating A) and B). To decide between C) and D), plug in sentence 4 after sentence 5 . Sentence 4 fits there because it introduces the idea of the world's largest solarpowered office building. C) is thus correct.
3. D: If you read only the first two sentences, you might think that sentence 2 belongs where it is. The problem is that sentence 3 does not follow logically from sentence 2. As a result, sentence 2 must be moved. That eliminates A). The key word initially indicates that the sentence is describing a situation that was true at the time sushi was invented. The discussion of sushi's origins begins at sentence 4 , so sentence 2 should not precede it. That eliminates B). Sentence 2 also should not be placed before sentence 5 because sentence 5 introduces the fact that the fish was fermented, an idea continued in sentence 2. That eliminates C) and makes D) correct.
4. A: Logically, Hopper's second compiler should be discussed after her first compiler, which is mentioned in sentence 3 (Then, in the 1950s, she invented the compiler...). A) is the only option to place sentence 4 after sentence 3 , so it is correct.
5. B: Because paragraphs do not normally consist of a single sentence, you can start by assuming that both A) and D) are incorrect. B) is correct because in sentence 3, the passage shifts from providing general background information about Houston's experience with Inuit art to discussing the specific point (1953) at which Houston began importing Inuit art into the United States.