## Infographics, p. 48

1. A: The fastest way to answer this question is to look at the overall shape of the graph. There are two "outlier" points that rise notably higher than the others. Both of those points are light gray, corresponding to strong El Ni単o years. The title of the graph indicates that high bars correspond to high rainfall, so it is accurate to say that a strong El Ni単o corresponded to the wettest
winters. B) is incorrect because the strong El Ni単o in 91-92 produced below-normal rainfall; C) is incorrect because the dark gray bars (weak El Ni単o) go up and down rather than up only; and D) is incorrect because the dark gray bars do not get closer to the light gray ones over time.
2. B: Each of the bars in this graph is split between two colors, so be careful to distinguish between the amount for each color and the total quantity represented by the bar. A) plays on this potential confusion: the 2011 bar as a whole represents more than 3,500 tons, but the question asks about hatchery-raised salmon only (lightgray bar). C) is true for wild salmon (dark-gray bar), not hatchery-raised. D) again plays on possible confusion about what the bars represent: the 2011 bar represents the existing volume, not the growth since 1979. The 1979 total was a bit over 500 , versus a bit over 3,500 in 2011 -a growth of 3,000 tons, not 3,500 . B) correctly states the amount represented by the 2011 hatchery bar: that bar goes from about 1,000 to just over 3,500, for a growth of over 2,500 .
3. B: If you check the answers in order, you'll hit on the correct answer fairly quickly. A) can be eliminated because the graph indicates that stationary glaciers (white bar) had disappeared entirely by 1995; they could not "decrease" any further. B) fits because the gray bars, which correspond to retreating glaciers, do in fact get lower between 1995 and 2013, indicating a reduction in the number of retreating glaciers. Because B) fits, there is no need to check C) or D).
4. C: One easy way to eliminate answers is to focus on the range of dates asked about in the question. The ending date is 2013 , and if you look at the bar for that year, you can see that it extends to just over 1,800 . Both A) and D) state that the panda population had increased to over 2,000 by 2013, so both of those answers can be eliminated. B) can be easily eliminated as well: this answer states that the panda population rose during each year, but the lines of the graph do not move consistently rightward. The presence of a shorter bar in 2009 is, however, consistent with the statement that panda populations declined before rebounding to over 1,800 , so C) is correct.

5. D: As a shortcut, consider the uneven distribution of sectors in the graph. If you notice that the largest sector by far is Manufacturing, then you might be able to jump to the answer: in D), the statement that wind power jobs are most concentrated in the Manufacturing and Other sectors is consistent with that distribution. Otherwise, A) is incorrect because the percentages for Financial services ( $16 \%$ ), Construction ( $12 \%$ ), and Transport ( $11 \%$ ) are not equal; B) is incorrect because $12 \%$ (Construction) is not half of $33 \%$ (Manufacturing); and C) is incorrect because $16 \%$ (Financial services) is not twice as much as $11 \%$ (Transport).