## Periods, Semicolons, and Commas + FANBOYS, p. 92

1.1 B: However is used to begin a new clause and so must follow a semicolon (or period) rather than a comma. Although comma + but in C ) is an acceptable alternative, a verb (insist) rather than a gerund (insisting) must be used to make the clause independent. D) is incorrect because nevertheless must follow a semicolon or period when used to begin a clause; otherwise, a comma splice is formed. This answer is grammatically interchangeable with A).

2.1 D: [S]ome of them are now offered over the Internet as well as in traditional classrooms is an independent clause and so must follow a semicolon or period; the comma in A) creates a comma splice. The addition of that in B) creates a jumbled construction, and C) is incorrect because a statement that begins with the construction pronoun + of which ("some of which") is always dependent and cannot follow a semicolon or period. D) correctly sets off the dependent clause with a comma.
3.1 C: In A), the construction comma + she is a tipoff that the sentence contains a comma splice. B) is incorrect because however at the beginning of a clause must follow a period or semicolon. D) is incorrect because but is a FANBOYS conjunction and so must not follow a semicolon. C) is correct because when a verb follows a FANBOYS conjunction, no comma should be used.
4.1 C: Although the underlined section makes sense attached to the preceding phrase, the market for their work disappeared almost overnight when the stock market crashed is a complete sentence, and so the comma before it creates a comma splice. To eliminate the error, it is necessary to create two sentences by changing the punctuation in the underlined portion. C) correctly provides a period.
5.1 A: The fastest way to answer this question is to recognize that comma + they typically signals a comma splice, and in fact that is the case here.
6.1 B: Comma + it is grammatically identical to comma + this: both create comma splices, and so both A) and C) can be eliminated immediately. D) can be eliminated as well because it fails to place any punctuation between the two sentences (fused sentence). B) eliminates the error by removing the pronoun and correctly placing a comma between an independent clause (Nestled in the middle of three southern provinces, Doñana National Park is one of Europe's most significant conservation areas) and a dependent clause (a maze of lagoons, marshes, lakes, cliffs, woodlands, and long stretches of pristine beaches untouched by human development).
7.1 C: Although the underlined section makes sense attached to the preceding phrase, he was also an interior designer and writer is a complete sentence, and so the comma before it creates a comma splice. To eliminate the error, it is necessary to create two sentences by changing the punctuation in the underlined portion. C) correctly provides a period.
7.2 D: Shortcut: Comma + and $=$ period $=$ semicolon, so A), B), and C) can all be eliminated, leaving D) as the only possible choice. This answer correctly removes the FANBOYS conjunction and, leaving the comma to separate a dependent clause (Used as Wright's summer residence) and an independent clause (it is considered a masterpiece of American architecture).
8.1 B: Although the underlined section makes sense attached to the preceding phrase, the sentence as a whole is jumbled and incoherent. To make this section logical, it is necessary to create two sentences. B) is correct because it breaks the sentence in two at a logical point and creates two grammatical statements.
8.2 D: Because both Climate also presented preservation problems and keeping fresh fruits and meats was next to impossible in warmer waters are complete sentences, it is incorrect to place only a comma between them. That eliminates both A) and C). B) can be eliminated as well because it does not place any punctuation between the sentences. D) correctly separates them with a semicolon.
9.1 D: Although the underlined section makes sense attached to the preceding phrase, Rockwell became one of the most popular artists in the United States is a complete sentence, and so the comma before it creates a comma splice. To eliminate the error, it is necessary to create two sentences by changing the punctuation in the underlined portion. D) correctly provides a period.

9.2 C : The construction comma + pronoun (he) in A) signals a comma splice. B) is incorrect because the semicolon is not followed by a complete sentence. (Shortcut: semicolon + -ING is almost always wrong.) D) is incorrect because it omits all punctuation between the sentences, creating a fused sentence. C) correctly replaces comma + he with a participle (having), creating a dependent clause and thus eliminating the comma splice.
10.1 A: B) and C) can be eliminated because the construction comma + this signals a comma splice. D) is incorrect as well because the verb was is missing, creating a nonsensical construction. If you can't eliminate this answer by ear, you can do it grammatically. A comma appears before the underlined portion, and D) begins with and. Comma $+a n d=$ period, so a complete sentence must follow; however, the theory that first proposed after a camel fossil was discovered in Canada's Yukon Territory in 1913 is not a sentence.
10.2 B: In A), comma + they signals a comma splice. The simplest way to fix this error is to replace the comma with a period, which B) does.