## Transitions 2, p. 109

1.1 C: The statement that Roundhay Garden Scene is the oldest surviving film serves to emphasize information in the previous sentence, which describes the film as primitive. The only option used emphasize a preceding statement is in fact, making C) correct.
2.1 D: All of the sentences prior to the last sentence describe the achievements of Project Mercury; the final sentence indicates that it was shut down. Those are opposing ideas, so a contradictor is required. Only however fits.
3.1 A: The passage sets up an opposition between the behavior of chimpanzees and that of bonobo monkeys, so a contradictor is required. In contrast conveys the correct relationship.
4.1 D: The passage is devoted to a description of gamelans, and the final sentence serves to continue that description. Nonetheless is a contradictor, so B) can be eliminated. The final sentence does not, however, indicate a result of the preceding statement (Gamelan music is not an integral part of Indonesian culture because it has a variety of instruments and includes vocalists), nor does it indicate an example of a previously introduced idea. That eliminates A) and C). In fact, no transition is required, making D) correct.
5.1 B: The passage describes two types of spiders: harmless ones, which are commonly seen out in the open, and poisonous ones, which typically remain hidden. Those are opposing ideas, so a contradictor is required. However is the only option that fits.
6.1 D: Make sure you read the entire sentencethere is no way to determine the answer from the beginning alone. If you read further, you'll see that the second clause begins with but. As a rule, two consecutive clauses should not both begin with transitions, so the transition at the beginning of the sentence must be removed. That makes D) the only possible answer.

6.2 C : The first sentence indicates that computerized fingerprint scanners were once rarely found outside of movies, whereas the second sentence indicates that they are now widespread. Those are opposing ideas, so a contradictor is required. Only however fits.
6.3 C : The statement that a USB fingerprint scanner can now be purchased for under $\$ 100$ serves to emphasize the idea in the previous sentence, namely that such scanners cost much less than they used to. Indeed is the transition used to indicate emphasis, so C) is correct. Besides indicates a shift to a new idea; next is used to indicate steps in a sequence; and likewise only serves to introduce a new example that is similar to a previous example, not to emphasize a previous statement. As a result, C) is a stronger answer.
7.1 B: The first sentence indicates that editors are responsible for determining which stories are published, and the second sentence illustrates that idea by describing a particular situation in which an editor would decide whether a story should run. For instance is used to introduce an example, so B) is correct.
7.2 A: The word although indicates that the sentence must provide contrasting examples of where executive editors work. The first half of the sentence indicates that these editors work for newspaper publishers, so the second half of the sentence must provide examples of other places where executive editors work. The original version is correct because television stations and advertising firms are examples of such places.
8.1 A: The preceding sentence indicates that straw is not easily destroyed, and the sentence begun by the transition states that it is quite hardy (tough). Those are similar ideas, but the second is not a result of the first, eliminating B). The second idea is also not an example of the first, eliminating C). Subsequently is used to indicate steps in a sequence, which does not fit this context at all, so D) can be eliminated as well. Only A) makes sense: In fact signals that the second statement will emphasize and build on the first by providing an even stronger idea.
8.2 C: The preceding sentence indicates that new homes that use straw have some updates, and the sentence begun by the transition provides an example of this updated use of straw (it's pressed into panels and then covered in brick). For example is thus the most appropriate transition.
9.1 A: The preceding sentence indicates that the Chinese were very concerned about the safety of their goods on the Silk Road, and the sentence begun by the transition states that they extended the Great Wall to help protect those goods. Logically, the second statement is a result of the first, so accordingly, a synonym for thus, is the most appropriate option.
9.2 B: Make sure you read the sentence without the transition: the first half indicates that silk was the major trade item on the Silk Road, whereas the second half gives examples of different items that also traveled along the route. A contradictor is therefore required, making although the correct option.
10.1 D: The first half of the sentence indicates that most of Sherman's photos are of Sherman herself, but the second half states that they are not selfportraits. Those are opposing ideas, so a contradictor is required. However is the only option that fits.
10.2 A: Therefore and consequently are synonyms, so B) and D) can be eliminated automatically. However does not fit either: the last sentence introduces a new fact about Sherman that serves to support the statement that she uses herself as a vehicle for commentary on a variety of issues in the modern world. There is no contradiction involved. A) is correct because in addition appropriately indicates that a new, related point is being introduced.