## Non-Essential Clauses with Commas, Dashes, and Parentheses, p. 121

1.1 C: The comma before the phrase or a thief signals the beginning of a non-essential phrase. A second comma must be used to mark the end of the non-essential information, making C) correct.
2. B: The dash after gardens signals the beginning of a non-essential phrase, so a second dash must be used to end it. Don't get distracted by all the various commas: you can tell that the phrase is non-essential because the sentence still makes sense when it is crossed out (With more than 300 gardens...London is one of Europe's greenest capitals).

3.1 A: Although the phrase such as the carnivorous pitcher plant might seem to be non-essential because the sentence would make sense without it, there is no option that provides two commas or dashes here. B) provides a comma only at the end, and D) provides it only at the beginning. C) does not fit either because only a single dash is used, making this answer the grammatical equivalent of C ). The only acceptable option is to omit the punctuation and thus the non-essential clause. Note that the SAT has included questions that treat phrases set off by such as both essentially and non-essentially; there is no fixed rule.
3.2 B: The non-essential phrase listing techniques that carnivorous plants use to trap prey is set off by an open parenthesis, so a close parenthesis must be used to signal the end. Note that the comma after the close parenthesis is correct because comma + and is used to join two independent clauses.
4.1 D: The beginning of the non-essential phrase more than $20 \%$ more than was spent just five years earlier is set off by a dash, so a dash must be used to mark the end of the phrase as well.
4.2 A: If you look at the sentence, you can see that there is no dash before the underlined portion, eliminating B). C) can also be eliminated because the information preceding the semicolon is not a sentence. A) is correct because the comma after importantly is used to mark the end of a nonessential phrase; the sentence still makes sense when most importantly is crossed out (it gets employees back to their desks more quickly, and...it allows workers to implement the skills they've learned). D) is incorrect because the comma after allows does not create a logical non-essential phrase.
5.1 B: It is always incorrect to place a comma before an open parenthesis, eliminating A) and D). C) is incorrect as well because no comma should be placed after the close parenthesis: comma + and is not followed by an independent clause. B) correctly omits the commas and uses parentheses alone to mark the non-essential information.
5.2 C: If you look only at the information after the semicolon, the original version might seem correct: however, those records were initially filled with inaccuracies is a complete sentence. The problem is that the statement before the semicolon is not a sentence (As a result of changes in species names and misidentifications). The whole sentence only works grammatically if however is treated non-essentially and placed between commas. If this word is crossed out, the sentence still makes sense: As a result of changes in species names and misidentifications... those records were initially filled with inaccuracies. C) is thus correct.
5.3 C: The dash after world signals the beginning of a non-essential phrase, so a dash must be used to mark the end of the phrase as well.