## Non-Essential vs. Essential Clauses, p. 130

1.1 C: Logically, Martin Luther King was Coretta Scott King's only husband, so the name must be non-essential and surrounded by commas.
2.1 B: As a general rule, that should not be preceded or followed by a comma because clauses beginning with this word are essential. That eliminates all the answers except for B).
3.1 D: The title Snow Flower and the Secret Fan is essential because it is necessary to specify which best-selling novel Lisa See wrote. Without that information and without any other context, the implication is that See wrote the only best-selling novel-an utterly improbable meaning. A comma is, however, required after the title in order to mark the end of a non-essential phrase: author of the best-selling novel Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. The portion is non-essential because the sentence still makes sense when it is crossed out: Lisa See...has always been intrigued by stories that have been lost, forgotten, or deliberately covered up.

3.2 A: This question is an exception to the "no comma after that" rule. Because the sentence still makes sense when she was told is removed, that clause can be considered non-essential and set off by commas. (To research the book, See traveled to a remote area of China that...only one foreigner before her had ever visited.) The other options do not make grammatical sense.
4.1 C: The phrase who created Scrabble ${ }^{\text {TM }}$ is essential because it is needed to specify who Butts was. He wasn't the (only) American architect, as commas would imply; rather, he was the American architect who created Scrabble ${ }^{\text {TM }}$. The clause is therefore essential, but a comma is required at the end in order to mark the end of a longer non-essential clause: the American architect who created Scrabble ${ }^{\mathrm{TM}}$. C) is thus correct.
4.2 D: The phrase who inspected them is essential because the passage is not discussing manufacturers in general, but rather a specific group of manufacturers: those who inspected the first sets of Butts's game. As a result, the clause is essential, and no commas should be used. That makes D) the only option.
5.1 A: To test out whether commas are needed around the name, cross it out: In November 1895, German physicist...accidentally discovered an image created by $x$-rays emanating from a vacuum tube. That does not make sense, so no commas are necessary. A) is thus correct.
5.2 A: Because it is logical to assume that Roentgen only had one wife, commas should be placed around the name Anna.
5.3 B: Make sure you read the sentence as a whole. In isolation, there is no reason to punctuate the underlined section; however, the comma after image marks the beginning of a nonessential clause, which logically ends after public (The image...aroused great scientific interest in the new form of radiation). As a result, a comma must be placed after this word.
6.1 A: By definition, Wood's best-known painting can only refer to one painting. In addition, the sentence still makes grammatical sense when the
title is removed (Grant Wood's best-known painting...is one of the few images to reach the status of universally recognized cultural icon). The title is thus essential, and two commas should be used.
6.2 C: Make sure you read the sentence as a whole and do not just focus on the underlined portion. In isolation, there is no reason to punctuate the underlined section; however, the comma after painting marks the beginning of a non-essential clause, which logically ends after prize (Photographs of the painting...appeared in newspapers country-wide and brought Wood immediate recognition). As a result, a comma must be placed after this word.
7.1 D: Logically, the phrase also known as school media specialists is non-essential because the sentence makes sense when it is removed: Certification for school librarians...varies by state. As a result, a comma must be placed after librarians.
7.2 C: The "who" clause is essential because the passage is referring not to librarians in general but to a specific group of librarians: those who work in local libraries. As a result, commas should not be used.
8.1 A: You can tell that the word however is being used non-essentially here because the sentence still makes sense when it is crossed out: High elevations and low temperatures do...create a difficult and dangerous trek. When a transition word is used non-essentially, it must be surrounded by commas; dashes cannot be used. That makes A) correct.
8.2 C: The "who" clause is essential because the passage is referring not to mountain climbers in general but to a specific group of mountain climbers: those who work want to trek to the summit of Mt. Everest. As a result, commas should not be used.
9.1 B: Although the sentence makes grammatical sense without the word polio, it does not make logical sense: the word polio is needed to tell readers which disease baffled scientific researchers for decades. As a result, the word is essential, and commas should not be used.

9.2 B: Because the sentence still makes sense when in fact is crossed out (It was...the most serious health problem of the mid-20th century, and scientists were frantic for a cure), two commas should be used.
9.3 C: The title March of Dimes is essential because it is needed to specify which organization is being referred to. As a result, no commas should be used.
9.4 D: The sentence still makes grammatical sense when the name is crossed out (Before a vaccine was finally discovered by an American scientist...in 1955, more than $80 \%$ of polio patients received help from the foundation), indicating that commas can acceptably be used around the name. In addition, the lack of commas around the name creates an awkward, ungrammatical construction: a break is required after scientist.