## Apostrophes with Nouns and Pronouns, p. 151

1. Its: Because you would not say, Despite it is brilliance and power, and because the word after the pronoun is a noun (brilliance), the possessive form, its, must be used. Its brilliance and power $=$ the brilliance and power of the sun.
2. Beings: The underlined noun is not followed by another noun (would is a verb), so it must be plural rather than possessive. Whose: Because you would not say, creatures who is bodies were half-human and half-machine, and because the word after the pronoun is a noun (bodies), the possessive form, whose, must be used.
3. Their attempts: Because you would not say, all of they are attempts have been unsuccessful, and because the word after the pronoun (attempts) is a noun, the possessive form, their, must be used. (The pronoun clearly does not refer to a place, so there cannot be correct.) Attempts must be plural rather than possessive because it is followed by a verb (have) rather than a noun.
4. Their: The underlined pronoun clearly does not refer to a place, so there cannot be the correct form. You also would not say, Bats can perceive and stalk they are prey. That leaves the possessive, their, as the only option. To confirm that it is correct, check the word that follows: prey is a noun, so their is correct. Echoes that identify its location: Echoes must be plural and not possessive because the word after it, that, is not a noun. Its must be possessive because you would not say, echoes that identify it is location, and because the pronoun is followed by a noun (location).
5. People's: The underlined noun is followed by another noun (emotions), so the possessive form is required. This is where things get tricky: people is an irregular plural noun-it is not formed by adding an $-s$ to its singular form, person. The possessive of an irregular plural noun is formed by adding apostrophe +- s (people's), NOT $-s+$ apostrophe (peoples'), as is the case for regular plural nouns. Its (correct): The underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (readings), so the possessive form is correct.
6. Whose: Because you would not say, George Westinghouse was an electrical industry pioneer who is first major invention, and because the underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (invention), the possessive form, whose, is correct. Scientists' (correct): the word many indicates that scientists is plural, and the noun afterward (admiration) indicates that it must be possessive.

7. Its traffic jams: Because you would not say, Although Los Angeles is famous for it is traffic jams, and because the underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (traffic jams), the possessive form, its, is correct. Traffic jams is not followed by another word, noun or not, so it must be plural rather than possessive. City's: The sentence is clearly referring to Los Angeles-that's one city, singular. The noun is, however, followed by another noun (center), so the possessive form, city's, is required. The city's center $=$ the center of the city.
8. Its bones: Because you would not say, ...because it is bones have been discovered in many different locations, and because the underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (bones), the possessive form, its, is correct. Bones cannot be possessive because it is followed by a verb (have) rather than a noun.
9. Whose (correct): Because you would not say, Individuals who is goal is to obtain an advanced degree in speech-language pathology, and because the underlined pronoun is followed a noun (goal), the possessive form, whose, is correct. Their (correct): The underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (undergraduate degree), so the possessive form, their, must be used.
10. You're: Because you would say, a career in transportation might be just what you are looking for, the possessive, your, is incorrect. Apostrophe + -re must be used to indicate a blend with the verb are.
11. Whose (correct): Because you would not say, The peacock is a bird who is penchant for showing off, and because the underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (penchant), the possessive form, whose, is correct. Its: Its' does not exist, so you must choose between its and it's. You would not say, ...whose penchant for showing off it is bright, multicolored plumage, so the possessive form, its, is correct.
12. Its: Because you would not say, The gray wolf...is now rarely spotted because it is habitat has been almost entirely destroyed, and because the underlined pronoun is followed by a noun (habitat), the possessive form, its, must be used.
13. Year's: The phrase every spring indicates that the sentence is referring to one year, so the plural form, years, does not make sense. In addition, the underlined noun is followed by another noun (festival), so the singular possessive, year's, is correct. Year's most important festival $=$ most important festival of the year. There: The underlined pronoun clearly refers to a place (New Orleans), so there is the correct form.
14. It's: Because you would say, it is frequently mistaken for an ancestor of monkeys and apes, it's is the correct form.
15. Garden's: The sentence is referring to a garden, so this word must be singular. It is also followed by another noun (value), so it must be possessive. The singular possessive is formed by adding apostrophe $+-s$, so garden's is correct.