## Pronoun/Noun Agreement and Apostrophes, p. 160

1.1 D: The underlined pronoun refers to acoustic engineers, which is plural and requires the thirdpersonal plural pronoun they.
2.1 C: The underlined pronoun refers to Jack Kerouac Alley, which is singular and requires the singular pronoun it's (= it has). Note that he's is wrong because the passage is referring to a place named after Jack Kerouac, not Kerouac himself.
3.1 B: Based on the context of the passage, the underlined pronoun must be referring to the plural noun deserts. A plural pronoun is therefore required, eliminating A) and D). B) is correct because they're = they are, and it is correct to say, They are often the site of unusual rock formations...
4.1 B: The pronoun we is used earlier in the sentence (If, for example, we dream...), and so it should be maintained. Our is the possessive form of this pronoun, so B) is correct.
4.2 A: Logically, the underlined pronoun must refer to a sleeping person, singular, so the correct phrase is he or she. That makes A) correct.

5.1 C : The pronoun you is used earlier in the sentence (You're up to your knees) and should be maintained. That eliminates A) and D). B) does not work because you would not say, You are surroundings seem to grow more hostile... C) correctly uses the possessive form, your.
5.2 B: A) does not make sense because there is no plural noun to which the underlined pronoun could logically refer-hours appears in the previous sentence, but it does not make sense to say the sky drenches hours. This and these are both vague and ambiguous, whereas the pages is clear and precise. B) is thus correct. Remember that if you are asked to choose between a noun and a pronoun, the noun is more likely to be correct because nouns are more specific than pronouns.
6.1 C: Be careful here. Although the sentence refers to multiple jazz musicians (Miles Davis, Ella Fitzgerald, Duke Ellington), the subject is actually Davis alone. Davis = one performer, not multiple performers, so A) and B) can be eliminated. D) can be eliminated as well because there is no dash already in the sentence to signal a non-essential clause, nor is there any logical reason to create a break in the sentence at that point. C) correctly refers to Davis as one of the most renowned performers and omits any unnecessary punctuation.
7.1 A: Logically, the underlined pronoun refers to people, plural. The plural pronoun they is thus required, making the original version correct.
7.2 D: The underlined pronoun must refer to Nadine Gordimer; she is thus correct.
7.3 B: The use of that without a noun afterward is awkward and vague, eliminating A). In D), the phrase that thing is even more awkward and excessively casual, so that answer can be crossed out as well. C) does not fit because the underlined pronoun must refer to the Nobel Prize, which is singular. B) provides a clear, precise noun that indicates exactly what Gordimer won. Remember that if you are asked to choose between a noun and a pronoun, the noun is more likely to be correct because nouns are more specific than pronouns.
8.1 B: The fact that webs allow spiders to catch prey while saving energy is not a dilemma, eliminating A). C) is incorrect because its is possessive, and the sentence should read, it is a tiring process. D) is incorrect because there is no plural noun to which they could logically refer spiders are not a tiring process. B) correctly specifies that the act of spinning a web is tiring. Remember that if you are asked to choose between a noun and a pronoun, the noun is more likely to be correct because nouns are more specific than pronouns.
8.2 D: Logically, the underlined pronoun must refer to the plural noun spiders. A plural pronoun is thus required, eliminating A) and B). C) can be eliminated as well because there refers to a place. D) correctly provides the possessive plural, their.
9.1 C: Whose name came from rumors of a large, dragon-like lizard? The Komodo dragon, singular. A singular pronoun is thus required, eliminating A) and B). D) can be eliminated as well because you would not say, It is name came from rumors... C) correctly provides the possessive form, its.
9.2 B: Although the sentence contains a plural noun, roots, it does not fit as the antecedent of the underlined pronoun: it is illogical to say that the Komodo dragon was unknown to roots. Likewise, D) does not work because there is no singular noun that could logically serve as an antecedent. C) does provide a noun, but those people is vague and overly colloquial, whereas researchers is clear, precise, and logical. B) is thus correct.
10.1 A: The underlined pronoun must refer to the plural noun 300 octopus species. The original version correctly provides a plural pronoun, and it makes sense to say They are part of an elite group of marine creatures...
10.2 B: A), C), and D) do not work because that, those, and this are all vague and potentially ambiguous when used without a noun. B) is correct because the noun the solutions is the clearest, most precise option. Remember that if you are asked to choose between a noun and a pronoun, the noun is more likely to be correct because nouns are more specific than pronouns.