## Cumulative Review, p. 163

1.1 D: The passage is referring to the parents of Judith Jamison, i.e., Judith Jamison's parents. Jamison's is possessive, so an apostrophe is required. Parents does not require an apostrophe, however, because the parents are not possessing anything. As a general rule, a noun should only take an apostrophe if it is followed by another noun, and that is not the case here.
1.2 D: To answer this question, you must consider the sentence as a whole. If you read from the beginning, you can notice that who wanted to complement their daughter's exceptional height with grace is a non-essential clause. When the clause is removed, the sentence does not work grammatically: Jamison's parents... and they enrolled her in the Judimar School of Dance, where she studied throughout her childhood. The simplest way to correct the error is to remove the word and, which D) correctly does.
1.3 B: Make sure you read from the beginning of the sentence and don't stop until you get to the period, six lines below. If you do so, you can observe that there are in fact two sentences. Even though the phrase in 1964 makes sense after the preceding statement, A) contains a massive runon. The simplest way to eliminate the error is to add a period and create two sentences, which is exactly what B) does.
1.4 A: B) is incorrect because the two halves of the sentence contain similar ideas, whereas but is used to introduce a contrasting idea. C) is incorrect because a a FANBOYS conjunction (and) should not follow a semicolon. D) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma + she). A) correctly uses a participle (joining) to smoothly connect the two halves of the sentence.
2.1 B: To see whether commas are required, cross out the name, and read the sentence without it: Microbiologist...a researcher at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, wondered why buildings couldn't do the same. No, that does not make sense, so the name is essential. As a result, commas should not be placed around the name. A single comma must, however, be placed after
the name in order to mark the beginning of the non-essential phrase that follows (a researcher at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands).
2.2 C: In both A) and B), the construction comma + they signals a comma splice, eliminating those options. D) is incorrect because the phrase and this being converted is wordy and awkward. C) is correct because it eliminates the comma splice and conveys most clearly that the bacteria are responsible for converting the calcium lactate to calcite.
2.3 D: A) and C) are both incorrect because world must be possessive: the most common construction material in the world = the world's most common construction material. B) is also incorrect because worlds' is the possessive plural, and there is only one world. D) correctly provides the singular possessive, world's.
2.4 A: Concrete's steel reinforcements = steel reinforcements of the concrete. This is a possessive construction, so the apostrophe is required. B) and C) can thus be eliminated. D) is incorrect because a complete sentence must follow a semicolon, but ultimately causing a collapse is not a sentence. A) correctly provides the singular possessive (concrete's) and uses a comma to set off the dependent clause that follows.
2.5 B: A period is identical to a semicolon, so both A) and C) can be automatically eliminated. D) is incorrect because some type of punctuation is required before the new clause beginning with far-otherwise, a run-on is created. B) correctly uses a dash to separate an independent clause from a dependent clause and create a dramatic pause before the second half of the sentence.
3.1 C: The sentence already contains a dash, which signals the start of a non-essential clause (that is, eject algae that play a key role in maintaining their ecosystems). The end must also be marked by a dash, making C) the only option.

3.2 B: A) contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma $+i t) ; C$ ) is incorrect because the gerund being creates an awkward construction; and D) is incorrect because and this is a very important link is unnecessarily wordy. In addition, the use of this without a noun afterward typically signals a wrong answer. A) correctly places a comma between an independent clause (Other organisms affected by temperature change include krill) and the dependent clause that modifies it (a very important link at the base of the food chain).
3.3 D: As a rule, such as should not be followed by a colon, eliminating A). B) is incorrect because the statement following the semicolon is not a complete sentence. C) is incorrect because there is no reason for a break to occur at that point. In addition, if the comma after seals marks the end of a non-essential phrase, the beginning of the phrase must also be set off by a comma, not a dash. D) correctly supplies the comma.
4.1 C: The "who" clause is essential because the passage is talking not about travelers in general but rather about a specific group of travelers: those who needed to cross bodies of water. As a result, no commas should be used, eliminating A). B) is incorrect because it places a comma between a subject (travelers who needed to cross bodies of water) and a verb (have). D) is incorrect because the statement before the semicolon (For thousands of years) is not a complete sentence. C) is correct because it removes the unnecessary commas around the "who" clause.
4.2 D: The underlined pronoun logically refers to the Chinese port city of Quindao, which is singular and requires a form of it. C) does not work because you would not say, [t]he brand new 26.4mile structure connecting the Chinese port city of Quindao to it is suburbs. D) correctly provides the possessive singular form, its.
4.3 B: Make sure to read the sentence from the beginning all the way through to the period. If you do so, you can notice that there are actually two sentences - the comma before the word today in the original version creates a comma splice. The easiest way to fix this error is to replace the comma with a period, making B) correct.
5.1 C: A) is incorrect because the statement following the semicolon (an aircraft capable of carrying more passengers more quickly than any propeller-driven design) is not a sentence. Although B) is grammatically acceptable, it is also incorrect because the phrase and it was an aircraft capable is unnecessarily wordy. D) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma + it). C) correctly places a comma between an independent clause (The dawn of the jet age in the 1950s brought in the likes of the Boeing 707) and the dependent clause that modifies it (an aircraft capable of carrying more passengers more quickly than any propeller-driven design).
5.2 A: B) is incorrect because no comma should be placed between an adjective (double-decker) and the noun it modifies (plane). When C) is plugged into the passage, a comma is wrongly placed between a subject (The enormous, doubledecker plane) and its verb (can). D) is incorrect because there is no second dash to indicate a nonessential clause, nor does it make sense to create a stylistic break at that point in the sentence. A) is correct because enormous modifies double-decker, so no comma is required between the adjectives.
5.3 B: A) is incorrect because a semicolon should only be placed between two sentences, and While the Airbus 380 is the largest passenger-carrying aircraft ever is not a sentence. C) is incorrect because the first clause already begins with the conjunction while; it is both redundant and grammatically unacceptable to place but at the beginning of the following clause. D) places two complete sentences back-to-back, without any punctuation between them (fused sentence). B) correctly places a comma between the first, dependent clause (While the Airbus 380 is the largest passenger-carrying aircraft ever) and the independent clause that follows (it is dwarfed by another design that may someday take to the skies).
6.1 D: The pronoun we appears earlier in the phrase containing the underlined portion, so we should be used in the underlined portion as well. That makes D) correct. Note that the shift to the present progressive (we are seeing) is a distraction; the correct answer depends only on the pronoun.

6.2 A: If you read from the beginning of the sentence, you can notice that there is a comma after Illusions. That, paired with the comma after found, signals a non-essential clause (scientists have found). When it is removed, the sentence still makes sense: Illusions...can reveal everything from how we process time and space to how we experience consciousness. Two commas are correctly used in A), making it the answer.
6.3 D: As a shortcut, know that when there is a "no transition" option, as there is in D), it has a higher-than-average probability of being correct and should be checked first. Indeed, that choice is correct here. The previous sentence describes a perceptual "trick" that occurs when people look at a waterfall, and the sentence begun by the transition provides the name for that illusion. Essentially, the second sentence provides more information about the first; it does not contradict it, provide an example, or explain a cause of it. No transition is thus required.
6.4 C : A) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma + this). B) is incorrect because the gerund causing creates a fragment: a conjugated verb is required after and. D) is incorrect because but signals the introduction of an opposing idea, and the two sentences contain similar ideas. C) is correct because by causing conveys a logical relationship between the clauses, indicating that overcompensation of neurons results in the faulty perception of movement.
7.1 D: Logically, the underlined pronoun must refer to the singular noun water. (What is the Earth covered in 300 million trillion gallons of? Water.) A singular pronoun is therefore required, eliminating A) and C). B) can be eliminated as well because the use of that without a noun afterward is awkward and vague. D) provides the correct singular pronoun, it.
7.2 D: A) and B) and C) can all be eliminated automatically because semicolon $=$ period $=$ comma + FANBOYS. These answers are incorrect because this punctuation can only separate two sentences, and the statement in the first half of the sentence is a fragment (As advancing
technology continues to reduce costs and freshwater continues to grow scarcer and more expensive). D) correctly places only a comma between the first, dependent clause and the independent clause that follows.
8.1 A: No colon should be placed before the list because When I used to think of the Middle Ages, I would imagine is not a complete sentence. That eliminates B) and C). D) can be easily eliminated as well because no comma should be placed after and, before the final item in a list. A) correctly omits the colon and the unnecessary comma.
8.2 D: As a rule, "that" clauses are essential and do not require commas. That makes D) the only possible option.
8.3 A: The information after the dash serves to explain or define the military purpose of medieval castles. That is introduces a definition or explanation, so A) is correct.
8.4 C: Comma + and $=$ period, but if you plug in a period, two sentences are not created:
Furthermore, castles were key staging points for conquests. Defenses of territories. As a result, no comma should be placed before and, eliminating A). B) is incorrect because when this answer is plugged in, a comma is placed before a preposition (of). D) is incorrect because no comma should be placed after and, before the final item in a list. C) correctly omits the unnecessary punctuation.
8.5 B: Cross out the original transition, and consider the two parts of the sentence separately. Part 1: Some castles were architectural masterpieces. Part 2: Others weren't very fancy. Those are opposing ideas, so a contradictor is required. Despite does not fit grammatically, leaving although. B) is thus correct.
9.1 B: Cross out the original transition, and consider the sentences separately. Sentence 1: Machines are blamed for stealing jobs. Sentence 2: Some machines create jobs. Those are opposing ideas, so a contradictor is required. In reality is the only option to imply that the first statement is false, making B) correct.

9.2 B: "Gin" is essential because it is needed to make clear which word the passage is talking about. The focus is not on the word, but rather on the specific word gin. As a result, no commas should be placed around "gin," making B) correct.
9.3 A: B) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma $+i t$ ). C) is incorrect because however signals the introduction of an opposing idea, and the second clause describes an effect of the first. D) is incorrect because it contains a fragment: when the non-essential clause is removed, it no longer makes grammatical sense (A wire brush... and prevented the machine from jamming). A) correctly uses and to join the clauses. Note that no comma is needed before this conjunction because and prevented the machine from jamming is not a full sentence.
9.4 C: If you read the entire sentence, you can notice that it contains a dash after cotton. Logically, that dash marks the end of a nonessential phrase (who could only cultivate "green seed" cotton), and so a dash must be used at the beginning as well. That makes C) the only option.
9.5 B: C) and D) can be eliminated immediately because C) contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma + one), and D) fails to place any punctuation between two sentences (fused sentence). The real choice is between the colon and the semicolon. It is true that in many cases, a colon and a semicolon can be used interchangeably, and because there are in fact two complete sentences, both options are correct in terms of grammar. In terms of meaning, however, a colon can only be used when the second statement explains or defines the firstand that is not the case here. In this instance, the first half of the sentence describes the extreme difficulty of cultivating "green seed" cotton, whereas the second sentence indicates how much easier Whitney's cotton made the process. Those are contrasting ideas. Although a contradictor such as but would make sense here, no such option exists. Given that, the semicolon is a perfectly acceptable option, making B) the answer.
10.1 A: When B) is plugged into the sentence, a massive run-on is created, eliminating this option. Placing a comma after groups creates a comma splice, eliminating C). D) fails to place any punctuation between the sentences (fused sentence) and incorrectly places a comma before a preposition (of) when plugged into the sentence. A) correctly uses a colon to separate the two sentences and introduce the explanation of the two groups in the second sentence.
10.2 D: A) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice; the tip-off is the construction comma + pronoun (others). B) is incorrect because the second clause is not the result of the first, as so would indicate. C) is incorrect because when however is used to begin a clause, it must follow a period or semicolon rather than a comma. D) correctly places a semicolon between the two independent clauses.
10.3 C: A) and D) are both incorrect because comma + this creates a comma splice. In addition, the use of this without a noun afterward typically signals a wrong answer because this pronoun is vague and potentially ambiguous. B) is incorrect because the passage is referring to patients' reactions, not to a finding made by researchers. C) correctly makes the second clause dependent, allowing a comma to be placed between it and the preceding, independent clause.
10.4 B: If you read the entire sentence, you can notice that it contains a dash after pain. Logically, that dash marks the end of a non-essential phrase (nausea, headaches, or pain), and so a dash must be used at the beginning as well. That makes B) the only option.
10.5 A: B) is incorrect because their should be they are-a possessive pronoun must be followed by a noun, which is not the case here. C) and D) are both incorrect because clauses beginning with whether present questions indirectly; as a result, no question marks should be used.