## Subject-Verb Agreement and Tense, p. 187

1.1 D: The subject of bring is one, which is singular and requires a singular verb (brings). The plural noun festivals is part of the prepositional phrase one of the world's largest folk-art festivals, which is placed between the subject and the verb. B) is incorrect because the gerund bringing creates a fragment, and C ) is incorrect because the rest of the passage is in the present tense, and there is no reason to change to the past (brought).
1.2 A: The subject of lines (singular) is the singular noun work. The plural noun artists is part of the prepositional phrase of master artists and does not affect the verb. B) and D) both incorrectly use plural verbs (have, line), and in C), the gerund lining creates a fragment. Only A) correctly provides a singular verb (lines).
2.1 C: The phrase the first kites indicates that the passage is describing a completed action in the past. Were flying describes an ongoing past action, eliminating A). B) is incorrect because flown (past participle) must follow a form of to be or to have. D) is incorrect because flew (simple past) cannot follow a form of to be or to have. C) correctly places the past participle after a form of to have.
2.2 D: The key word since indicates that the present perfect (has + past participle) is required. That makes D) the only option.
2.3 B: The subject of the underlined verb is Colorful narrative illustrations and legendary heroes, which is plural and requires a plural verb (decorate). The singular noun folklore is part of the prepositional phrase from Japanese folklore that is placed between the subject and the verb. That eliminates A) and D). C) is also incorrect because the gerund decorating creates a fragment. B) correctly provides the plural form, decorate.
2.4 C: The subject of the verb is no single design, singular, so a singular verb is required. Are is plural, so A) can be eliminated, and will and had do not make sense, eliminating B) and D). C) correctly provides a singular verb, is.
3.1 C: The subject of the underlined verb is skilled and nimble fingers, which is plural and requires a plural verb. The singular noun woman is part of the prepositional phrase of an old woman, which is inserted between the subject and the verb. Bends and has bent are both singular, eliminating A) and D). B) can be eliminated as well because will bend is in the future tense, and the rest of the passage is in the present. C) correctly provides a plural verb, bend.
3.2 D: All the other verbs in the first two sentences are in the present tense, so the underlined verb must be in the present as well. That makes D) the answer. Don't get thrown off by the shift to the progressive (are also holding): D) is the only option to contain a main verb in the present tense (are), and progressive forms are considered parallel to simple ones when both are in the same general tense.
3.3 A: The subject of the underlined verb is preservation, which is singular and requires a singular verb. The plural noun baskets is part of the prepositional phrase of ancient baskets, which is placed between the subject and the verb. Are and were are plural, so B) and C) can be eliminated, and D) is also incorrect because the gerund being creates a fragment. A) correctly provides a singular verb, is.
3.4 B: The passage indicates that it is difficult to preserve ancient baskets because the materials they are made of decay. Logically, the next sentence describes a result of that fact-not what would happen (conditional), but what has actually happened. Only has been describes an action that has already begun to occur, making B) correct. Note that when more complex tenses such as the conditional/ past conditional (would be lost/would have been lost) or the future perfect (will have been lost) appear, they are typically incorrect.

3.5 B: The subject of the underlined verb is (weaving) techniques, which is plural and requires a plural verb. The singular noun generation is part of the non-essential clause which are often passed along from generation to generation, which is placed between the subject and the verb. Has been and is are singular, eliminating A) and C). D) is also incorrect because a passive construction is required, and a main verb is missing: to be acceptable, this answer would need to read weaving techniques are preserved.
4.1 D: The passage is describing how fast the Concorde actually did go, not how fast it could have gone (conditional) or will go (future). A) and C) can thus be eliminated. B) is incorrect as well because gone is a past participle and must follow a form of to be or to have-it cannot appear on its own. D) correctly provides the simple past, went.
4.2 C: The subject of the underlined verb is the gerund eliminating. Gerunds are always singular, so a singular verb is required. Is is the only singular option, making C) correct.
4.3 D: The subject of the underlined verb is the plural noun, planes, so a plural verb must be used. That eliminates both A) and B). Notice that the tense switch in B) is only a distraction-the question is really testing agreement. C) essentially functions as a distractor answer as well; it cannot be correct because the use of a gerund (making) rather than a conjugated verb creates an obvious fragment. D) correctly provides a plural verb, make.
4.4 A: To identify the complete subject, you must read from the beginning of the sentence.
Although the noun immediately before the verb (technology) is singular, the complete subject is actually a compound noun: lightweight materials and innovative engine technology. Compound subjects are plural, and so a plural verb is required. Has allowed, is allowing, and allows are all singular, eliminating B)-D). Only A) correctly provides a plural verb, allow.
5.1 B: Be very careful with this question: this is the rare sentence in which the subject (the first berries) comes after the verb. Berries is plural, so a plural verb is required. Was, is, and has are all singular, eliminating A), C), and D). Only B) correctly provides a plural verb, were.
5.2 A: The key phrase Sometime around 1800 is a tip-off that the passage is describing a completed action in the past. In addition, the surrounding verbs are in the simple past (used, planted). As a result, a verb in the simple past must be used here as well. To answer the question, it is only necessary to look at the first word of each answer: has and does are both in the present, and will is in the future, so B)-D) can be eliminated. That leaves A), which correctly supplies a simplepast verb, did.
5.3 B: The subject of the underlined verb is competition, which is singular and requires a singular verb. Were and have been are plural, eliminating A) and C). D) is incorrect as well because the conditional (would be) is used to describe actions that could occur, but the passage is referring to a situation that did actually occur. B) is correct because was is singular and appropriately used to describe an actual occurrence.
5.4 C: All the surrounding verbs are in the simple past (operated, competed, was), so the underlined verb must be in the simple past as well. Grows is in the present, eliminating A). B) is in the wrong tense (present perfect) and constructed incorrectly: has must be followed by the past participle (grown) rather than the simple past (grew). D) is in the past tense, but the wrong kind of past. Had + past participle is the past perfect, which is used to describe an action in the past that occurred before a second action. Here, however, the passage is describing what happened after the business was founded and operated on a local level. That eliminates D). C) correctly provides the simple past form, grew.

5.5 D: B) can be eliminated automatically because had must be followed by the past participle (become) rather than the simple past (became). C) does not make sense either because the passage is clearly describing events that occurred far in the past (mid-nineteenth century), and becomes is in the present tense. A) is incorrect as well because again, the sentence is describing a situation that occurred far in the past (the expansion of the business to larger cities), whereas the present perfect (has become) signals an action that is continuing into the present. D) correctly provides the simple past form, became, to describe an action that began and ended in the past.
6.1 C: The subject of the underlined verb is fingerprints, which is plural and requires a plural verb. The singular noun earth is part of the prepositional phrase of each person on earth, which is placed between the subject and the verb. Was and is are singular, eliminating A) and B). D) can be eliminated as well because the gerund being creates a fragment when it is plugged into the sentence. C) correctly provides a plural verb, are. Note that the various tenses in the answer choices are only a distraction-the question is really testing subject-verb agreement.
6.2 C: The sentence is describing what police officers once did to fingerprints in order to identify criminals, and so a past construction is required. A) can be eliminated because lift is in the present tense. B) can be eliminated because the present perfect (have lifted) is used to describe an action that began in the past and is continuing into the present, but the following sentence clearly indicates that fingerprints are no longer lifted this way. D) is also incorrect because will lift is in the future tense, which does not fit at all here. C) is correct because would + verb can be used to describe repeated actions in the past: would lift is thus correct.
6.3 B: The surrounding sentences clearly describe actions that are occurring today (Fingerprints are now used) and include verbs in the present tense (are, can). As a result, a verb in the present tense should be used here as well. Have also matched is in the present perfect, which refers to an action that began in the past rather than the present, so
A) can be eliminated. C) is incorrect because had also matched is in the past perfect, which clearly does not fit, and D) is incorrect because the gerund having creates a fragment when plugged into the sentence. B) correctly provides a verb in the present tense, can.
7.1 B: The subject of the underlined verb is One, which is singular by definition and requires a singular verb. The plural noun attractions is part of the prepositional phrase of my favorite attractions, which is placed between the subject and the verb. Were and are = singular, eliminating A) and C). D) can be eliminated as well because the gerund being creates a fragment when it is plugged into the sentence. B) correctly provides a plural verb, was. Note that the various tenses in the answer choices are only a distraction-the question is really testing subject-verb agreement.
7.2 A: The subject of the underlined verb is park, which is singular and requires a singular verb. The plural noun cars is part of the non-essential clause which can be reached from cable cars, which is placed between the subject and the verb. Feature and have featured are plural, eliminating B) and D). C) can be eliminated as well because the gerund having creates a fragment when it is plugged into the sentence. A) correctly provides a singular verb, features.
7.3 D: Like 5.1, this is a sentence in which the subject (the buildings) comes after the verb (is). Buildings is plural, and so a plural verb is required. Is and was are singular, so A) and C) can be eliminated. Were is the right number but the wrong tense: all the surrounding verbs are in the present tense (can, features, consists), and so this verb must be in the present as well. B) can thus be eliminated. D) correctly provides a plural verb in the present tense (are).

7.4 B: The subject of the underlined verb is (ecological) trail, which appears right before the "that" clause (that pass [sic] through a plantation of coffee bushes). Trail is singular and requires a singular verb. A) can be eliminated because pass is plural. C) can be eliminated because the surrounding verbs are all in the present tense (includes, offers, are, is), and there is no reason to switch to the future (will pass). D) can be eliminated as well because the gerund passing creates a fragment when it is plugged into the sentence. B) correctly provides a singular verb in the present tense, passes.
8.1 B: The phrase In the 1920s is a tip-off that the sentence is describing a complete action in the past and that a verb in the simple past should be used. B) provides the simple past form, transformed, so it is correct.
8.2 B: To identify the complete subject, you must read from the beginning of the sentence. Although the noun immediately before the verb (buying) is singular, the complete subject is actually a compound noun: assembly-line production and bulk buying. Compound subjects are plural, and so a plural verb is required. A) can be eliminated because has is singular. B) provides a plural verb, have, and is thus correct. C) does not fit because had driven down is in the past perfect tense, which is used to indicate that an action in the past came before a second action-the sentence, however, is talking about a situation today, and so the use of this tense does not make sense. D) does not work either because the gerund driving creates a fragment when plugged into the sentence.
8.3 A: The tip-off word since, which appears shortly after the underlined portion, indicates that the present perfect (has evolved) must be used. That makes A) the only option.
8.4 C: The subject of the underlined verb is $a$ number, which is plural and requires a plural verb. Allows and has allowed are singular, eliminating A) and B). D) is also incorrect because the gerund allowing creates a fragment when plugged into the sentence. C) correctly provides the plural form, allow.