## Parallel Structure, p. 204

1.1 C: The first two items in the list consist of nouns alone (wolves, lions), so the third item must consist of a noun alone as well. Only C) provides a noun, sharks, so it is correct.
1.2 C: The first two items in the list begin with -ING words (trapping, lassoing), so the third item must begin with an -ING word as well. Only C) provides an -ING word, mimicking, so it is correct.
1.3 A: At first glance, this might look like a standard "list" parallel structure question, but if you look through the answer choices, you'll notice that there is no option that puts the second and third items in the exact same format as the first (cover, lie). Don't be fooled by C): even though the second item is listed correctly, the addition of then they before the verb in the third item makes this option incorrect. To answer the question, you must recognize that the correct answer involves not a three-item list, but rather an independent clause (Trap door spiders dig holes) modified by a participial phrase with two parallel participles (covering, lying). As a result, A) is correct.
2.1 B: The first two items in the list consist of nouns alone (grammar, punctuation), so the third item must consist of a noun alone as well. Only B) provides a noun, spelling, so it is correct.
2.2 B: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word and, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by an -ING word (changing), so the correct answer must contain one as well (rearranging).
2.3 D: The first two items in the list begin with present-tense verbs (carry, confirm) so the third item must begin with a present-tense verb as well. Only D) contains this construction (verify).
3.1 A: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word or, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. Or is preceded by the general construction noun + of + noun ( $a$ sympathetic tilt of the head), so that same construction must appear after the transition as well. As a shortcut, you can notice that only A) contains the word of (an excited sweep of the tail), making it the sole possible answer.
3.2 C: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word and, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by the phrase expressions that indicate happiness, so the correct answer must contain the same basic construction: nouns that do $x$. As a shortcut, you can notice that C ) is the only option to contain that, and indeed, ones that indicate anger fits the required construction. That makes C) correct.
4.1 D: The previous two sentences contain the pattern first there was + noun, then there was + noun, so the third must have the same basic construction: Now there's thundersnow.
4.2 D: The phrase falls instead of must contain the same construction on either side. It is preceded by a noun only (snow), and so it must be followed by a noun as well. The overall construction is $x$ falls instead of $y$, so there is no reason to place a word after the noun rain. The best option is thus to delete the underlined word.

4.3 D: The sentence sets up an opposition between air that is cold enough to create snow and the underlined portion, which indicates that this air is also warmer than something. The contradictor but should thus be used, eliminating B). In A), the gerund being is awkward and unnecessary, and in C), the words it is are unnecessary and disturb the parallelism of the sentence (cold enough...but warmer than). D) creates a parallel construction, making it the answer.
5.1 B: The first two sentences of the passage contain the basic construction $X$ 's do $y$, so the third sentence must contain this construction as well. As a shortcut, focus on the first word of each choice because the correct answer must begin with a noun (structural engineers). B) is the only option that does so and is correct.
5.2 C: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word or, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. Or is preceded by the phrase harness the force of the wind, so the underlined portion must contain the construction noun + of + noun. As a shortcut, look for the word of. Only C) contains this word, and so it is the only possible answer.
6.1 B: The first two items in the list consist of nouns (simplicity, openness), and so the third item must contain a noun as well. (Don't get thrown off by the fact that there is no option consisting solely of a noun-the correct option must simply begin with a noun.) B) is the only option to begin with a noun (sense), and so it is correct.
6.2 D: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word or, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. Or is preceded by an adjective (complicated), so the underlined portion must begin with an adjective as well. Only D) does so. In addition, this answer is the clearest and most concise.
6.3 C: The first two items in the list contain the basic construction $x$ would do $y$, so the underlined portion must contain the same construction. As a shortcut, look for the word would. Only C) contains it, and it is correct.
7.1 C: The first two sentences consist of nouns only, and so the third sentence must contain this construction as well. (Note that although this is not technically correct, it is a common stylistic device in journalistic writing and is considered acceptable.) Only C) contains a noun alone.
7.2 A: The underlined word is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word and, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by the phrase to suspend disbelief, so the underlined portion must contain either an infinitive (to accept) or the verb alone (accept) - the latter is acceptable because the to before suspend can also apply to the second verb. Only A) fits; all the other options disturb the parallel structure.
8.1 A: The previous items in the list consist solely of "time" words (before, during), so the underlined item must consist solely of a time word as well. Only A) provides such a word (after). B) and C) introduce unnecessary words, disrupting the parallel structure, and D) is incorrect because the sentence does not make sense when the third item in the list is removed.
8.2 B: The underlined word is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word and, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by the infinitive to see, so the underlined portion must contain either an infinitive (to feel) or the verb alone (feel) - the latter is acceptable because the to before see can also apply to the second verb. Only B) fits; all the other options do not maintain parallel structure.
8.3 D: The other items in the list consist of adjective + noun (white streaks, floating orbs), so the underlined item must be in the format of adjective + noun as well. Flickering is an adjective, and flames is a noun, so D) is correct.

8.4 A: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word or, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. Or is preceded by the noun minutes and no preposition, so the underlined portion must also contain a noun without a preposition. B)-D) all contain unnecessary prepositions; only A) provides a noun (hours) not preceded by a preposition.
9.1 D: The other items in the list consist of nouns alone (sugar, milk, coffee), so the underlined item must also consist of a noun only (canned goods). Only D) provides the correct construction.
9.2 B: The underlined word is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word and, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by the infinitive to harvest, so the underlined portion must contain either an infinitive (to move) or the verb alone (move) - the verb alone is acceptable because the to before harvest can also apply to the second verb. Only B) maintains parallel structure.
9.3 C: Not only appears earlier in the sentence and must be paired with but also, eliminating A) and B). D) can be eliminated as well because the preposition in appears on the other side of the transition as well as, and so that preposition must be used in the underlined portion as well. Another preposition (to) cannot be used in its place. C) uses the correct preposition and is thus the answer.
9.4 D: The other items in the list consist of nouns (posters, seed packets, photos), so the underlined item must consist of a noun as well. Deleting the underlined portion allows the passage to jump directly to the noun (newspaper articles) and eliminates the unnecessary verbs present in choices A)-C).
10.1 D: The presence of the word and indicates that the underlined portion must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by a noun (physician), so a noun must follow the transition; it is unnecessary to provide a subject. Only D) provides a noun alone (educator), so it is correct.
10.2 A: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word and, so it must be in the same format as the information before the transition. And is preceded by the phrase for the philosophy of education that bears her name, so the underlined portion also must contain the preposition for. Only A) provides this construction.
10.3 C: The underlined portion must be made parallel to the phrase Montessori did not set out to be a teacher and so must be able to follow the phrase did not set out. Only an infinitive can be placed after set out-the basic construction is did not set out to be $x$, only to be $y$. Only C) provides an infinitive (to become), so it is correct.
10.4 C: The underlined portion is linked to the earlier part of the sentence by the word but, so it must contain the same essential construction as the information before the transition: She initially intended to do $x$ but eventually did $y$. The correct answer must therefore include a verb in the simple past (settled on), making C) correct. Notice that although the earlier portion of the sentence contains an infinitive (to study), it does not make sense to insert one after eventually: the underlined verb is describing what Montessori actually did, not what she intended to do. Using an infinitive in the underlined portion would link it to intended. As a result, A) is incorrect.