## Dangling and Misplaced Modifiers, p. 214

1.1 B: In the original version, the phrase over a period of 18 days on a tightrope implies that Spelterini spent 18 consecutive days on a tightrope, but realistically, this could not have been the case. C) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma + she). D) is incorrect because the construction and, furthermore, doing this is wordy and awkward. This answer also fails to place a noun after the word this. B) logically places on a tightrope next to cross the Niagara Gorge and avoids the comma splice by using a participial phrase (accomplishing that feat) to join the clauses smoothly.

1.2 A: Who was balancing on a two-and-quarter inch wire? Maria Spelterini, i.e., she. That makes A) the only option; all the other answers create dangling modifiers.
1.3 C: The underlined phrase literally indicates that the second crossing was blindfolded when it was obviously Spelterini whose eyes were covered. The correct answer must make clear that Spelterini was the one wearing the blindfold; only C) does so.
1.4 D: To whom does the phrase Never again performing at Niagara refer? Spelterini. Because the original sentence fails to place her name after the comma, it creates a dangling modifier. B) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice (tipoff: comma + her). C) contains the same error as A). D) eliminates the dangling modification and uses comma + and to correctly join two independent clauses.
2.1 C: What was James Marshall's discovery of? Gold. So for maximum clarity, the phrase of gold must be placed next to discovery-the placement next to James Marshall is awkward and disrupts the logic of the sentence. Only C) contains the correct construction.
2.2 B: Logically, these prospectors were known as "forty-niners"; however, the placement of the phrase known as "forty-niners" next to an overland route implies that this title belonged to the route rather than to the prospectors. Only B) makes it clear that the prospectors were known as "fortyniners."
2.3 D: To share must be placed after enabled. As a general rule, when a verb is followed by an infinitive (e.g., enabled to share), the infinitive must be placed directly after the verb and not separated from it by another statement such as a prepositional phrase (with other miners). That eliminates A). B) and C) can be eliminated because logically, the forty-niners only shared expenses with other miners - they could not have shared expenses with supplies. D) correctly states that the miners shared expenses and supplies.
2.4 C: Who disembarked? The miners, i.e., they. The placement of any other word after the underlined portion creates a dangling modifier. That makes C) the only possible answer.
3.1 D: Favorite modifies store owners, and so those two words/phrases must be placed next to one another. The insertion of a prepositional phrase (around the world) between those two elements is awkward and illogical. That eliminates A) and B). C) can be eliminated as well because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma + this). D) correctly eliminates both the misplaced modification and the comma splice.
3.2 B: What have been used widely since the 1970s? Plastic bags. So plastic bags, the subject, must be placed after the comma. Otherwise, a dangling modifier is created. That eliminates A). C) can be eliminated for the same reason: the introductory phrase again describes plastic bags, not environmentalists. D) is incorrect because the placement of but after a non-essential clause creates a nonsense construction: The bags...but environmentalists estimate nearly a trillion plastic bags. B) eliminates the dangling modification and correctly uses comma + and to join two independent clauses.
3.3 A: What are unable to break down in landfills? The bags. So the bags, the subject, must be placed at the beginning of the underlined portion. Otherwise, a dangling modifier is created. Only A) places the subject in the appropriate position in the sentence, so it is correct.
4.1 B: Logically, bioluminescence-not a living organism - is light created by a chemical reaction. That eliminates A) and D). C) is incorrect as well because it contains a comma splice (tip-off: comma $+i t)$. Only B) makes clear that the light is created by a chemical reaction.

4.2 D: What [dwells] almost exclusively in saltwater habitats? Bioluminescent organisms, not some form of bioluminescence. Bioluminescence is a scientific phenomenon-it cannot "dwell" anywhere. That eliminates A). B) incorrectly places an independent clause before the comma, creating a comma splice. C) is incorrect because it also creates a dangling modifier and because the phrase being dwelled in almost exclusively by them is wordy, awkward, and passive. D) eliminates the dangling modification and makes it clear that it is bioluminescent organisms that dwell almost exclusively in saltwater habitats.
5.1 C: What [consists] mostly of scenes shot in real time? Guerrilla films. So guerilla films (i.e., "these films"), the subject, must be placed at the beginning of the underlined portion. Otherwise, a dangling modifier is created. Only C) places the logical subject in the correct position.
5.2 D: The original version and C) illogically imply that the filmmakers themselves are inexpensive, not the cameras. In B), the phrase and these are inexpensive is wordy, and these is ambiguous because it could apply to either professional quality digital cameras or to filmmakers. D) corrects the misplaced modification by placing inexpensive next to professional quality digital cameras, where the modifier logically belongs