## Relative Pronouns, p. 221

1.1 C: Whom cannot be placed before a verb (stumble). Because the pronoun in question refers to people (Hansel and Gretel), who must be used instead.
1.2 A: Whose is correctly used to indicate the possessive: the sentence is referring to the popularity of the art form. B) is incorrect because you would not say, gingerbread construction was elevated to an art form who is popularity quickly spread. C) creates a fused sentence, and D) creates a nonsense construction.
2.1 B: Whom cannot be placed before a verb. Because the pronoun in question refers to a person (a woman), who must be used instead.
2.2 C: A) and B) can be eliminated because no comma should be placed before or after that. In D), comma + it signals a comma splice. C) correctly places a comma before which to set off a non-essential clause (which was decorated with banners and balloons).
2.3 B: Whom cannot be placed before a verb. Because the pronoun in question refers to a person (Willa Cather), who must be used instead.
2.4 C: A) and B) are incorrect because which can only refer to things, and an author is a person. D) is incorrect because no comma should be placed before that. C) correctly uses who to refer to Willa Cather.
3.1 D: Where should be used to refer to places only, not times, eliminating A). Now, be careful. Although in which can correctly be used to refer to a time period, the underlined portion is linked to the phrase one for wakefulness by the transition and. As result, it must be parallel to that phrase: one for wakefulness $=$ one for sleep. (Note that you will miss this requirement if you don't continue past the underlined portion and read to the end of the sentence.) Only D) provides the correct construction.
3.2 D: As a general rule, no comma should be placed before or after that, eliminating both A) and C). Although B) is grammatically acceptable, it is incorrect because the underlined portion should not contain a non-essential clause. The sentence is not talking about groups in general but rather about two specific types of groups: those that often nap. An essential ("that") clause is thus required, and since no commas are used with this type of clause, D) is correct.
3.3 B: Where should be used to refer to places only; the underlined pronoun refers to a period of time. From which and that do not fit grammatically when plugged into the sentence, but whereby can acceptably be used as an alternative to during which. B) is thus correct.

3.4 A: The original version correctly places who rather than whom before a verb (sleep). Which is used to refer to things, not people, eliminating C). D) is incorrect because when this answer is plugged into the passage, a comma is placed before a preposition (in).
3.5 A: The original version correctly places whom after a preposition (of). Note that in this case, it is acceptable to place a verb (are) afterward because the construction pronoun + of whom ("all of whom") functions as a single unit and serves as the subject of are.
4.1 D: Whom cannot be placed before a verb (called). Because the pronoun in question refers to a person (David Hackenberg), whom must be used instead.
4.2 C: Whom cannot be placed before a verb (used), eliminating A). Because the pronoun refers to a person, which is incorrect, eliminating B). Although D) contains who, it also contains an unnecessary and illogical switch to the future tense (who will call) and cannot be correct. The only idiomatically acceptable option is to call, making C) correct.
4.3 B: Whom cannot be placed before a verb (were). Because the pronoun in question refers to people (some beekeepers), who should be used instead.
4.4 D: Because in which is already used to refer to places earlier in the sentence, it is unnecessary to include a separate, random preposition (to) at the end of the sentence.) D) removes the unnecessary preposition and is therefore correct.
5.1 C: The underlined pronoun follows the preposition of, and so whom rather than who should be used to refer to Patience Wright. Note that in this case, it is acceptable to place a verb (was) afterward because the construction pronoun + of whom ("one of whom") functions as a single unit and serves as the subject of was.
5.2 B: No comma should be placed before that, so A) can be eliminated. C) is incorrect because the sentence is not referring to something in the portraits but rather a characteristic of the portraits themselves. D) is incorrect because it contains a comma splice. B) correctly places a comma before which to begin a new clause.
5.3 B: Whom cannot be placed before a verb (watched). Because the pronoun in question refers to people (those, i.e., the people who watched Wright work), who must be used instead.
5.4 B: A) is incorrect because which is used for things, and the Queen of England is a person. C) is incorrect because whom should not be placed before a verb (admired). D) is incorrect because the phrase and she admired is wordy and vague: it is not immediately clear who was admiring whom. B) correctly places who before a verb.
5.5 A: The original version fits because it is correct to say many new Americans owed their deep gratitude to George Washington. As a result, the phrase can be rewritten to state that Washington was a leader to whom many new Americans owed their deep gratitude. B) is incorrect because who should not follow a preposition. C) is incorrect because which refers to things, not people. D) is incorrect because to him creates a nonsense construction when plugged into the sentence.