### 7.1 WAVES

A wave is a regular disturbance or variation that carries energy, which spreads out from the source. For example, energy is transferred from the Sun to the Earth in the form of light waves called electromagnetic waves. These waves can even travel through

vacuum. However, in a medium, energy is transferred due to the regular and repeated disturbances that travel through the medium, making its particles to move up and down or back and forth (to and fro). Imagine a stone thrown into a pond of water (Fig. 7.1).

- The stone produces a disturbance (ripple) that travels through the water (medium).
Fig. 7.1: Reprosenting a travelling disturbance (ripple)

- The water particles move up and down about their mean positions, creating a repeating pattern known as wave that spreads out.
The displacement of a particle of a wave is its distance in a specified direction from its rest / equilibrium position. If the displacement is plotted along the $y$-axis and the time in the direction of energy travel along the $x$-axis, we get a waveform as shown in Fig. 7.2.
The waves can be described by the following parameters:

1. Amplitude (A): The maximum displacement of the wave (or particles of the medium) from its equilibrium position.
2. Frequency ( $f$ ): The number of oscillations or vibrations or cycles per second.
3. Wavelength ( $\lambda$ ) The distance between two consecutive similar points on the wave that are in phase.
Fig. 7.2: Graphical description of a wave

# 4. Period (T): The time taken by the wave to complete one oscillation or cycle. it is the reciprocal of the frequency $T=1 / f$.
5. Speed ( $v$ ): The speed at which the wave travels. If a wave crest moves one wavelength $\lambda$ in one period of oscillation $T$, the speed $v$ is given by $v=\lambda / T$ as $1 / T=f$, so $\quad v=f \lambda$
6. Phase ( $\theta$ ): The relative position of a point on the wave at a given time.

## Types of Waves

Waves have various forms, each with unique characteristics. A brief detail of different types of waves is given below:

# 1. Mechanical Waves

These waves require a physical medium (solid, liquid, or gas) to propagate. Examples are water waves (ocean, lake, or pond ripples), sound waves (audible vibrations in air, water, or solids), seismic waves (earthquakes), etc.

## 2. Electromagnetic Waves

They do not require a medium to propagate and therefore, can travel through vacuum. Examples are radiowaves (wireless communication), Microwaves (cooking and heating), infrared waves (IR or heat radiation), Visible light (sunlight, lamp light), Ultraviolet waves (UV radiation), X-rays (medical imaging), Gamma rays (high-energy radiation), etc.

## 3. Quantum Waves

Quantum waves are associated with particles like electrons and photons. Examples are matter waves/particle waves (electron waves in atoms) or de-Broglie waves, photon waves (light quanta), etc.

## 4. Surface Waves

Surface waves propagate along surfaces or interfaces between two mediums. Examples are ocean surface waves (wind-driven waves), seismic surface waves, etc.

## Transverse and Longitudinal Waves

There are two main types of waves which are named as transverse waves and longitudinal waves. A transverse wave is one in which the vibrations of the particles are at right angles to the direction in which the energy of the wave is travelling whereas a longitudinal wave is one in which the direction of the vibration of the particles is along or parallel to the the direction in which the energy of the wave is travelling.
The transverse wave and longitudinal wave are illustrated in Figs. 7.3 (a and b), respectively.

## Transverse waves

Longitudinal waves
Fig. 7.3: Main types of waves