### 7.9 BEATS

When two waves of slightly different frequencies, travelling in the same direction overlap each other then there is a periodic variation of sound between maximum and minimum loudness which is called as beats.
Tuning forks give out pure notes (single frequency). If two tuning forks $A$ and $B$ of the same frequency say 32 Hz are sounded separately, they will give out pure notes. If they are sounded simultaneously, it will be difficult to differentiate the notes of one tuning fork from that of the other. The sound waves of the two will be superposed on each other and will be heard by the human ear as a single pure note.
If the tuning fork $B$ is loaded with some wax or plasticine, its frequency will be lowered slightly, say it becomes 30 Hz . If now the two tuning forks are sounded together, a note of alternately increasing and decreasing intensity will be heard. This note is called beat note or a beat which is due to interference between the sound waves from tuning forks $A$ and $B$.

# Physics II

Fig. 7.13 (a) shows the waveform of the note emitted from a tuning fork A. Similarly, Fig. 7.13(b) shows the waveform of the note emitted by tuning fork B. When both the tuning forks $A$ and $B$ are sounded together, the resultant waveform is shown in Fig. 7.12(c). It shows how do the beat note occur. At some instant $X$, the displacement of the two waves is in the same direction. The resultant displacement is large and a loud sound is heard.
After $1 / 4 \mathrm{~s}$ the displacement of the wave due to one tuning fork is opposite to the displacement of the wave due to the other tuning fork resulting in minimum displacement at $Y$, hence, faint sound or no sound is heard.
Fig. 7.13: Formation of beats

Another $1 / 4 \mathrm{~s}$ later, the displacements are again in the same direction and a loud sound is heard again at $Z$.
Thus, during one second, we observe two faintest sounds or two loudest. As the difference of the frequency of the two tuning forks is also 4 Hz so, we find that the number of beats per second is equal to the difference between the frequencies of the tuning forks.

$$
\begin{aligned}
& f_{n}=32 \mathrm{~Hz}, \quad f_{a}=30 \mathrm{~Hz} \quad f_{n}>f_{a} \\
& \text { No. of beats }=f_{n}-f_{a}=32 \mathrm{~Hz}-30 \mathrm{~Hz}=2
\end{aligned}
$$

However, when the difference between the frequencies of the two sounds is more than 10 Hz , it becomes difficult to recognize the beats.
The difference between the frequencies of the two waves is termed as beal frequency $f_{\text {w }}$.
One can use beats to tune a string instrument, such as piano or violin, by beating a note against a note of known frequency. The string can then be adjusted to the desired frequency by tightening or loosening it until no beats are heard.

# Tuning Musical Instruments

Here are some examples of how beats are generated In musical instruments:

1. Guitar: When playing two strings with slightly different tunings, beats are created. For example, playing a standard tuned string and a string tuned a few cents higher or lower.
2. Piano: Playing two keys white and black, adjacent to each other, creates beats.
3. Violin: When playing two strings with slightly different bow pressures or speeds, beats are generated.
4. Drums: When two drums with slightly different tunings are played simultaneously, beats are created.
5. Flute: When playing two notes with slightly different embouchure (lip and facial muscles) positions, beats are generated.
6. Organ: When playing two pipes with slightly different tunings, beats are created.
7. Synthesizer: Generating two oscillators with slightly different frequencies creates beats.

In each of these examples, the slight difference in frequency between the two sound sources creates a periodic increase and decrease in amplitude, resulting in a "beat" or pulsation effect.

Musicians often use beats intentionally to create interesting rhythmic effects, add texture, or produce a sense of tension and release. However, In some cases, beats can be unwanted and may require adjustments to tuning, pitch, or playing technique to minimize their impact.

# Physics II

Example 7.7 Two tuning forks exhibit beats at a beat frequency of 3 Hz . The frequency of one fork is 256 Hz . Its frequency is then lowered slightly by adding a bit of wax to one of its prongs. The two forks then exhibit a beat frequency of 1 Hz . Determine the frequency of the second tuning fork.

Solution Frequency of first tuning fork $=f_{1}=256 \mathrm{~Hz}$
Beat frequency before loading $=3 \mathrm{~Hz}$
Beat frequency after loading $=1 \mathrm{~Hz}$
Frequency of second tuning fork $=f_{2}=$ ?
As

$$
f_{1}-f_{2}= \pm n
$$

Then

$$
f_{3}=f_{1} \pm n
$$

Putting the values, we have

$$
f_{3}=256 \mathrm{~Hz} \pm 3 \mathrm{~Hz}
$$

Either

$$
f_{3}=256 \mathrm{~Hz}+3 \mathrm{~Hz}
$$

or

$$
f_{2}=256 \mathrm{~Hz}-3 \mathrm{~Hz}
$$

$$
f_{3}=259 \mathrm{~Hz} \quad \text { or } \quad 253 \mathrm{~Hz}
$$

In 1711. F. J. Shore, who was a royal trumpeter and lutenist invented tuning forks.

Let us consider 259 Hz as correct answer (i.e. frequency of second tuning fork). When first fork is loaded with wax, the frequency of first fork must fall below 256 Hz i.e., 255 Hz , 254 Hz and thus the number of beats produced per second will increase and will be greater than 3 beats. Since the number of beats per second decreases on loading first fork is one, therefore 259 Hz is not correct frequency of second tuning fork.
Thus, Correct frequency $=f_{2}=253 \mathrm{~Hz}$