### 4.4 POWER

In the definition of work, it is not clear, whether the same amount of work is done in one second or in one hour. The rate, at which work is done, is often of interest in practical applications.

# Piyalue

Power is the measure of the rate at which work is being done.
If work $\Delta W$ is done in a time interval $\Delta t$, then the average power $P_{w}$ during the interval $\Delta t$ is defined as:

$$
P_{w}=\frac{\Delta W}{\Delta t}
$$

If work is expressed as a function of time, the instantaneous power $P$ at any instant is defined as:

$$
P=\operatorname{Limit}_{\Delta t \rightarrow 0} \frac{\Delta W}{\Delta t}
$$

where $\Delta W$ is the work done in short interval of time $\Delta t$.

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \text { Since } \\
& \Delta W=F \cdot \Delta d \\
& \text { Hence } \\
& P=\frac{F \cdot \Delta d}{\Delta t}=F \cdot \frac{\Delta d}{\Delta t} \\
& \text { Since } \\
& \frac{\Delta d}{\Delta t}=v \\
& \text { Hence } \\
& P=F \cdot v
\end{aligned}
$$

Thus, power may also be defined as the scaler product of $F$ and $V$.
The SI unit of power is watt, defined as one joule of work done in one second.
Sometimes, for example, in the electrical measurements, the unit of work is expressed as watt second. However, a commercial unit of electrical energy is kilowatt-hour.
One kilowatt- hour is the work done in one hour by an agency whose power is one kilowatt.
Therefore

$$
1 \mathrm{kWh}=1000 \mathrm{~W} \times 3600 \mathrm{~s}
$$

or

$$
1 \mathrm{kWh}=3.6 \times 10^{4} \mathrm{~J}=3.6 \mathrm{MJ}
$$

For your information
Approximate Powers
Device Power (W)

| Jumbo Jet Aircraft | $1.3 \times 10^{4}$ |
| :-- | :-- |
| Car at 90 km h | $1.1 \times 10^{4}$ |
| Electric heater | $2 \times 10^{4}$ |
| Coloured TV | 120 |
| Flash light (two cells) | 1.5 |
| Pocket calculator | $7.9 \times 10^{4}$ |

Example 4.2 A 70 kg man runs up a long flight of stairs in 4.0 s . The vertical height of the stairs is 4.5 m . Calculate his power output in watts.

## Solution Work done $=m g h$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\text { Power } & =\frac{m g h}{t} \\
P & =\frac{70 \mathrm{~kg} \times 9.8 \mathrm{~m} \mathrm{~s}^{4} \times 4.5 \mathrm{~m}}{4 \mathrm{~s}} \\
P & =7.7 \times 10^{4} \mathrm{~kg} \mathrm{~m}^{2} \mathrm{~s}^{4}=7.7 \times 10^{4} \mathrm{~W}
\end{aligned}
$$

## It takes about $9 \times 10^{4} \mathrm{~J}$ of energy to make a car and the car then uses about $1 \times 10^{17} \mathrm{~J}$ of energy from petrol in its life time.