### 12.3 ELECTRIC FIELD LINES

A visual representation of the electric field can be obtained in terms of electric field lines; an idea proposed by Michael Faraday. Electric field lines can be thought of a "map" that provides information about the direction and strength of the electric field at various places. As electric field lines provide information about the electric force exerted on a charge, the lines are commonly called "lines of force".

To introduce electric field lines, we place positive test charges each of magnitude $q_{0}$ at different places but at equal distances from a positive charge $+q$ as shown in the figure. Each test charge will experience a repulsive force, as indicated by arrows in Fig. 12.6(a). Therefore, the electric field created by the charge $+q$ is directed radially outward. Fig. 12.6 (b) shows corresponding field lines which show the field direction. Fig. 12.7 shows the electric field lines in the vicinity of a negative charge $-q$. In this case the lines are directed radially "inward", because the force on a positive test charge is now of attraction, indicating the electric field points inward.

Figures 12.6 and 12.7 represent two dimensional pictures of the field lines. However, electric field lines emerge from the charges in three dimensions, and an infinite number of lines could be drawn.

The electric field lines "map" also provides information about

the strength of the electric field. As we notice in Figs. 12.6 and 12.7 that field lines are closer to each other near the charges where the field is strong while they continuously spread out indicating a continuous decrease in the field strength.

# "The number of lines per unit area passing perpendicularly through an area is proportional to the magnitude of the electric field".

The electric field lines are curved in case of two identical separated charges. Fig. 12.8 shows the pattern of lines associated with two identical positive point charges of equal magnitude. It reveals that the lines in the region between two like charges seem to repel each other. The behaviour of two identical negatively charges will be exactly the same. The middle region shows the presence of a zero field spot or neutral zone.

The Fig. 12.9 shows the electric field pattern of two opposite charges of same magnitudes. The field lines start from positive charge and end on a negative charge. The electric field at points such as $1,2,3$ is the resultant of fields created by the two charges at these points. The directions of the resultant intensities is given by the tangents drawn to the field lines at these points.

In the regions where the field lines are parallel and equally spaced, the same number of lines pass per unit area and therefore, field is uniform on all points. Fig. 12.10 shows the field lines between the plates of a parallel plate capacitor. The field is uniform in the middle region where field lines are equally spaced.

We are now in a position to summarize the properties of electric field lines.

1) Electric field lines originate from positive charges and end on negative charges.
2) The tangent to a field line at any point gives the direction of the electric field at that point.
3) The lines are closer where the field is strong and the lines are farther apart where the field is weak.
4) No two lines cross each other. This is because $E$ has only one direction at any given point. If the lines cross, E could have more than one direction.
Fig. 12.8 The electric field lines for two identical positive point charges.
Fig. 12.9 Attractive forces between unlike charges
Fig. 12.10 In the central region of a parallel plate capacitor the electric field lines are parallel and evenly spaced, indicating that the electric field there has the same magnitude and direction at all points.

# 12.4 APPLICATIONS OF ELECTROSTATICS

## (i) Xerography (Photocopier)

Fig.12.11 illustrates a photocopy machine. The copying
This computer image shows the electric field lines generated by the fish at the top of the picture. Through the electric field, the presence of other fish can be detected, such as the one silhouetted at the bottom.
Fig. 12.11 The basics of photocopying. The lamp transfers an image of the page to the drum, which leaves a static charge. The drum collects toner dust and transfers it to the paper. The toner is melted onto the page.
process is called xerography, from the Greek word "xeros" and "graphos", meaning "dry writing". The heart of machine is a drum which is an aluminium cylinder coated with a layer of selenium. Aluminium is an excellent conductor. On the other hand, selenium is an insulator in the dark and becomes a conductor when exposed to light; it is a photoconductor. As a result, if a positive charge is sprinkled over the selenium it will remain there as long as it remains in dark. If the drum is exposed to light, the electrons from aluminium pass through the conducting selenium and neutralize the positive charge.

If the drum is exposed to an image of the document to be copied, the dark and light areas of the document produce corresponding areas on the drum. The dark areas retain their positive charge, but light areas become conducting, lose their positive charge and become neutral.

In this way, a positive charge image of the document remains on the selenium surface. Then a special dry, black powder called "toner" is given a negative charge and spread over the drum, where it sticks to the positive charged areas.
The toner from the drum is transferred on to a sheet of paper on which the document is to be copied. Heated pressure

rollers then melt the toner into the paper which is also given an excess positive charge to produce the permanent impression of the document.

# (11) Inkjet Printers

An inkjet printer (Fig. 12.12 a) is a type of printer which uses electric charge in its operation. While shuttling back and forth across the paper, the inkjet printer "ejects" a thin stream of ink. The ink is forced out of a small nozzle and breaks up into extremely small droplets. During their flight, the droplets pass through two electrical components, a "charging electrode" and the "deflection plates" (a parallel plate capacitor). When the printhead moves over regions of the paper which are not to be inked, the charging electrode is left on and gives the ink droplets a net charge. The deflection plates divert such charged drops into a gutter and in this way such drops are not able to reach the paper. Whenever ink is to be placed on the paper, the charging control, responding to computer, turns off the charging electrode. The uncharged droplets fly straight through the deflection plates and strike the paper. Schematic diagram of such a printer is shown by Fig. 12.12 (b).
Fig. 12.12 (b) An inkjet printhead ejects a steady flow of ink droplets. The charging electrodes are used to charge the droplets that are not needed on the paper. Charged droplets are deflected into a gutter by the deflection plates, while uncharged droplets fly straight onto the paper.
Inkjet printers can also produce coloured copies.